     1→## Dissecting Corporate Culture Using Generative AI - Insights from Analyst Reports *
     2→
     3→Kai Li, Feng Mai, Rui Shen, Chelsea Yang, and Tengfei Zhang
     4→
     5→First version: August 2023
     6→
     7→This version: February 2024
     8→
     9→## Abstract
    10→
    11→Our study is among the first in finance, accounting, and economics to apply generative AI models as reasoning agents on analyst reports to gain insights into analysts' views of corporate culture. We employ generative AI (ChatGPT) to analyze 2.4 million analyst reports between 2000 and 2020. Generative AI organizes analysts' views into a knowledge graph that links different cultural values to their perceived causes and effects. In terms of influencing factors for corporate culture, analysts identify business strategy as a key factor for a large number of cultural values -customer-oriented, operations-oriented, innovation, results-oriented, adaptability,  integrity,  and  risk  control;  and  management  team  for  teamwork,  innovation, results-oriented, adaptability, integrity, risk control, and people-oriented values. In terms of business outcomes shaped by corporate culture, analysts identify innovation and adaptability as affecting almost all aspects of business operations, ranging from market share and growth to corporate ESG practices, while other values such as customer-oriented, operation-oriented, or people-oriented have less impact on business outcomes. We further provide evidence that analysts' views of culture are distinct from values presented on corporate websites, and/or from the views of executives and employees. Finally, we show that analysts' views of corporate culture are reflected in their stock recommendations and target price forecasts as well as impact price reactions to the release of their reports. We conclude that analysts' research on corporate culture offers new insights into its causes and effects, and that we are closer to establishing the culture-firm value link.
    12→
    13→Keywords : corporate  culture; equity analysts; analyst  reports;  large  language  models; generative AI; ChatGPT; cause-effect knowledge graph
    14→
    15→JEL classifications
    16→
    17→: C45; C55; G32; G34; Z1
    18→
    19→* Kai Li: Sauder School of Business, University of British Columbia. Email: kai.li@sauder.ubc.ca. Feng Mai: School of Business, Stevens Institute of Technology. Email:  feng.mai@stevens.edu. Rui Shen: Shenzhen Finance Institute,  School  of  Management  and  Economics,  The  Chinese  University  of  Hong  Kong,  Shenzhen.  Email: ruishen@cuhk.edu.cn.  Chelsea  Yang:  Sauder  School  of  Business,  University  of  British  Columbia.  Email: chunxue.yang@sauder.ubc.ca. Tengfei Zhang: Rutgers School of Business-Camden, Rutgers University. Email: tengfei.zhang@rutgers.edu. We thank helpful comments from Hoa Briscoe-Tran, Jin-Chuan Duan, Roby Lehavy (discussant),  Johan  Sulaeman,  Baozhong  Yang,  Bernard  Yeung,  Frank  Yu,  seminar  participants  at  CEIBS, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Chinese University of Hong Kong - Shenzhen, Fanhai International School of Finance,  Fudan  University,  Nanyang  Technological  University,  National  University  of  Singapore,  NYU  Shanghai,  NYU  Stern  Corporate  Governance  Research  Luncheon, Renmin  University,  Rutgers  University, Shanghai  Jiaotong  University,  Shanghai  Advanced  Institute  of  Finance,  Singapore  Management  University, Southern  University  of  Science  and  Technology,  Stevens  Institute  of  Technology,  Tsinghua  University,  and conference participants at the First New Finance Conference (Toronto), the New Idea Session at the Financial Management Association Meetings (Chicago), the HKUST Accounting Research Symposium (Hong Kong), and the 2024 Culture Connect Conference (Berkeley). We acknowledge financial support from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Grant Number: 435-2022-0285). Li acknowledges financial support from the Canada Research Chair in Corporate Governance. Zhang acknowledges data support from the Whitcomb Center for Research in Financial Services at Rutgers University. All errors are our own.
    20→
    21→## Dissecting Corporate Culture Using Generative AI - Insights from Analyst Reports
    22→
    23→## Abstract
    24→
    25→Our study is among the first in finance, accounting, and economics to apply generative AI models as reasoning agents on analyst reports to gain insights into analysts' views of corporate culture. We employ generative AI (ChatGPT) to analyze 2.4 million analyst reports between 2000 and 2020. Generative AI organizes analysts' views into a knowledge graph that links different cultural values to their perceived causes and effects. In terms of influencing factors for corporate culture, analysts identify business strategy as a key factor for a large number of cultural values -customer-oriented, operations-oriented, innovation, results-oriented, adaptability,  integrity,  and  risk  control;  and  management  team  for  teamwork,  innovation, results-oriented, adaptability, integrity, risk control, and people-oriented values. In terms of business outcomes shaped by corporate culture, analysts identify innovation and adaptability as affecting almost all aspects of business operations, ranging from market share and growth to corporate ESG practices, while other values such as customer-oriented, operation-oriented, or people-oriented have less impact on business outcomes. We further provide evidence that analysts' views of culture are distinct from values presented on corporate websites, and/or from the views of executives and employees. Finally, we show that analysts' views of corporate culture are reflected in their stock recommendations and target price forecasts as well as impact price reactions to the release of their reports. We conclude that analysts' research on corporate culture offers new insights into its causes and effects, and that we are closer to establishing the culture-firm value link.
    26→
    27→Keywords : corporate  culture; equity analysts; analyst  reports;  large  language  models; generative AI; ChatGPT; cause-effect knowledge graph
    28→
    29→JEL classifications
    30→
    31→: C45; C55; G32; G34; Z1
    32→
    33→## 1. Introduction
    34→
    35→Since 'the 'cultural revolution' in finance' began a decade ago (Zingales 2015), researchers have gained a deeper understanding of corporate culture gleaned from values presented on corporate websites, and through surveys and interviews with corporate executives, earnings conference calls, employee reviews, and job postings (Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015; Grennan 2019; Li, Mai, Shen, and Yan 2021; Graham, Grennan, Harvey, and Rajgopal 2022a, 2022b; Pacelli, Shi, and Zou 2022; Li, Chen, and Shen 2024); and using proxies for corporate culture (see, for example, Ahern, Daminelli, and Fracassi 2015; Liu 2016; also see surveys by Gorton, Grennan, and Zentefis 2022; Grennan and Li 2023). This body of work as a whole, however, leaves a number of important research questions unanswered; for example, do capital market participants (e.g., information intermediaries) share the same views of corporate culture as corporate insiders (e.g., management)? Does corporate culture affect stock prices? Our study is among the first in finance, accounting, and economics to apply generative artificial intelligence (AI) models as reasoning agents on analyst reports to answer these questions.
    36→
    37→Sell-side equity analysts play an important role in processing, producing, and disseminating information about publicly listed companies to capital market participants (see, for example, Womack 1996; Brav and Lehavy 2003; Asquith, Mikhail, and Au 2005; Derrien and Kecskés 2013; Huang, Lehavy, Zang, and Zheng 2018; Birru, Gokkaya, Liu, and Stulz 2022). These analysts gain in-depth knowledge of the firms they follow through both formal and informal channels: reading financial statements, attending earnings conference calls, conducting site visits, and engaging directly with top and divisional managers (Soltes 2014; Brown, Call, Clement, and Sharp 2015). A number of prior papers show that analysts possess value-relevant non-financial information about the companies they cover, for example, management quality and innovation (Previts, Bricker, Robinson, and Young 1994; Huang,
    38→
    39→Zang, and Zheng 2014; Brown et al. 2015; Bellstam, Bhagat, and Cookson 2021). It is thus natural for us to investigate whether and how analysts conduct analyses on corporate culture, given their information intermediary role. Our research addresses the following questions from the vantage points of 2.4 million analyst reports covering S&amp;P 1500 firms over a 21year period: 1) What cultural values prevail in a modern corporation? 2) What events, people, and/or systems shape corporate culture? 3) How does a cultural value affect different business outcomes? 4) What is the relationship between corporate culture and price formation?
    40→
    41→An analyst report contains quantitative analyses of recent and estimated firm performance (e.g., earnings per share) and qualitative interpretations of information signals (e.g., management quality) (Asquith, Mikhail, and Au 2005; Soltes 2014). An average report comprises approximately 60 sentences over eight pages (Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014). With millions of reports over our sample period 2000 -2020, manually coding reports in search of answers to our research questions is infeasible.
    42→
    43→To automatically synthesize analysts' views of corporate culture and delineate the underlying logic in their respective analyses, we introduce a novel method built on generative AI models (e.g., OpenAI's ChatGPT and Google's PaLM). Specifically, we view those models as reasoning agents, capable of extracting causes and effects pertaining to a cultural value from analyst reports (Blanco, Castell, and Moldovan 2008; Radinsky, Davidovich, and Markovitch 2012; Heindorf et al. 2020). These relations reflect the reasoning processes analysts undertake to dissect corporate culture, connecting different cultural values (e.g., innovation and teamwork) to their perceived causes and effects (e.g., management turnover and customer satisfaction). We then use the output from our method to answer the research questions listed above.
    44→
    45→We apply generative AI to over 92,000 culture-related segments identified from our report sample. The following is an illustrative example generated from our method. In the report featuring Cisco Systems Inc. by Walter Piecyk from the brokerage firm Painewebber Inc., released on April 14, 2000, the analyst says, '…Cisco promotes a highly entrepreneurial culture within its organization, which has enabled the company to lure and hire about 3,000 new employees per quarter to its 26,100-employee base. ' Our method extracts a cause-effect relation in a triple as ('innovation culture,' 'enables,' 'ability to lure and hire new employees' ). After converting extracted causes, cultural values, and effects into a normalized format - a process known as canonicalization - we end up with nine cultural values, seventeen drivers of cultural changes, and sixteen business outcomes shaped by corporate culture.
    46→
    47→We are aware that extracting analysts' views of corporate culture using generative AI presents several challenges. One such challenge is the untested nature of AI models in accurately extracting cause-effect relations. Concerns also arise regarding the possibility that analysts might not possess meaningful insights into intangibles such as corporate culture, and/or might simply echo information heard from earnings conference calls. To address these issues, we adopt a multi-pronged approach to validate our method.
    48→
    49→First, we conduct a direct validation of generative AI models' extraction results through human annotation. We find that ChatGPT and PaLM models both exhibit high levels of accuracy, precision, recall, and F1. In particular, ChatGPT achieves accuracy rates of 91.0%, 86.5%, 88.5%, 71.0%, and 91.5% for cultural values, causes, effects, cause-effect relations, and tones, respectively, and outperforms PaLM. Given the task's complexity, these performance metrics are indicative of generative AI models' reasoning capabilities. Second, we show that analysts' discussions of certain values such as customer-oriented, resultsoriented, and risk control cultures are more intense in firm-year observations that do not hold
    50→
    51→calls compared to those in firm-year observations that hold calls, suggesting that analysts are not simply repeating what they hear from calls. Moreover, we note that even in firm-year observations in which executives say little about corporate culture in calls, analysts covering those firm-years still discuss more about risk control culture than their peers covering firmyear observations in which executives say more about corporate culture in calls. We further note that the nine cultural values featured in analyst reports do not directly repeat those values listed on corporate websites (Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015), discussed in calls (Li et al. 2021), discussed by employees (Grennan 2019), or discussed by executives in surveys and interviews (Graham et al. 2022a, 2022b), which again suggests that analysts do possess unique insights into corporate culture.
    52→
    53→To provide a bird's-eye view of corporate culture from the vantage points of equity analysts, we aggregate the nine cultural values, seventeen different causes, and sixteen different business outcomes into a cause-effect knowledge graph. The graph shows that, according to equity analysts, the top three cultural values prevailing in a modern corporation are innovation, adaptability, and customer-oriented cultures; the top three drivers of cultural changes are business strategy, management team, and strategic transformation; the top three business outcomes that culture shapes are market share and growth, profitability, and employee satisfaction. Our method further allows us to pinpoint the events, people, and/or systems that shape specific cultural values, and identify which cultural values have the most impact in driving specific business outcomes. For example, analysts identify that mergers and acquisitions (M&amp;As, an event) and management team (people) are the top two factors shaping the cultural value of teamwork, and that the cultural value of teamwork bolsters business relationships and drives market share and growth.
    54→
    55→We also ask generative AI to classify tones in culture-related segments (as negative, neutral, or positive) and summarize reasons why analysts discuss culture. We find that
    56→
    57→innovation, customer satisfaction, and employee satisfaction are viewed positively, whereas misconduct, internal conflicts, and risk management are viewed negatively in analysts' analyses of business outcomes relating to culture. Moreover, we show that the top three reasons analysts discuss culture are: 1) financial performance, valuation, and competitive advantage; 2) strategic alignment and execution; and 3) human capital management.
    58→
    59→How do analysts' views of corporate culture compare with existing research on culture? Using values presented on websites of S&amp;P 500 firms, Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales (2015) find that those proclaimed values appear irrelevant. Yet, when employees perceive top management to be trustworthy and ethical, their firm performance is stronger. Using employee reviews to measure culture, both Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales (2015) and Grennan (2019) conclude that traditional measures of corporate governance do not seem to have a significant impact on culture; Li, Chen, and Shen (2024) conclude that CEOs ultimately have moderate impact on corporate culture. Using job postings to measure corporate culture, Pacelli, Shi, and Zou (2022) establish a positive association between firms with a strong culture and their ability to attract and retain talent. After surveying 1,348 North American executives, Graham et al. (2022a) find the top three-ranked cultural values are results-oriented culture, community, and collaboration; the top three factors determining a firm's current culture are current CEO, market place, and owners; and the top three business outcomes affected by corporate culture are productivity, profitability, and creativity. Clearly, analysts' research on corporate culture offers insights that are both richer (i.e., more cultural values as well as their causes and effects identified) than and distinct from those derived from corporate websites, employee reviews, job postings, and/or surveys and interviews with corporate executives (e.g., according to analysts, the top three cultural values prevailing in modern corporations are innovation, adaptability, and customer-orientation, whereas according to executives, they are results-orientation, community, and collaboration).
    60→
    61→To gain a better understanding of why analysts are interested in corporate culture, we employ regression analysis relating firm and analyst characteristics to the likelihood of analysts' featuring culture discussions in their reports, the number of values discussed, and their respective tones when discussing different cultural values. We find that firm size, sales growth, profitability, and major events such as top management turnover and deal-making are positively and significantly associated with, whereas leverage, earnings volatility, tangibility, ownership by large shareholders, and board independence are negatively and significantly associated with, analysts' discussing culture in their reports. Moreover, we find positive and significant associations between both executives' discussing culture in calls and the number of employees rating corporate culture on Glassdoor and analysts' featuring culture in their reports. Our findings on the negative influences of large shareholders and the positive influences of key corporate events (such as management turnover and M&amp;As) are largely consistent with prior literature (e.g., Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015; Li et al. 2021). Our findings on the positive association between management discussing culture in calls (employees' posting culture-related reviews on Glassdoor) and analysts' featuring culture in their reports, and on the negative association between management discussing culture in calls and analysts' tones about culture in their reports are new, suggesting that analysts do pay attention to stakeholders and value-relevant intangibles such as corporate culture in their research.
    62→
    63→In terms of analyst characteristics, we show that analysts who are women, are more experienced, and are affiliated with large brokers are more likely to discuss culture in their reports. The associations between certain analyst characteristics - gender, experience, and broker prestige - and coverage of culture help assuage concerns about analysts' indifference to or lack of insights into corporate culture.
    64→
    65→Our cumulative evidence above suggests that equity analysts do have unique and significant insights into corporate culture from outside a corporation compared to insights gleaned largely from stakeholders within a corporation.
    66→
    67→Finally, we explore whether there is any relationship between corporate culture and price formation. We find that analysts' positive tones in discussing culture are positively and significantly associated with their stock recommendations and target prices. In terms of economic significance, a change in tones from neutral to positive is associated with a 2.7 percentage point-increase in the probability of analysts upgrading their recommendations and a 1.4 percentage point-increase in target price forecast relative to the mean. Importantly, we also find that investors react positively and significantly to the positive tone in report text on culture, controlling for a report's quantitative and qualitative characteristics and analyst/firm characteristics. In terms of economic significance, a change in tones from neutral to positive results in an additional three-day abnormal return of 30.6 basis points around the release date of a report, corresponding to an $88.4 million increase in market value for an average firm in the sample. We conclude that analysts' research on culture offers new insights into its causes and effects, and that we are one step closer than prior work to establishing the culture-firm value link.
    68→
    69→We contribute to the literature in three ways. First, our study provides new insights into corporate culture from the vantage points of important information intermediaries in capital markets - equity analysts. As such, our paper extends prior work that studies corporate culture using websites, employee reviews, surveys and interviews with executives, earnings conference calls, and/or job postings (see, for example, Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015; Grennan 2019; Au, Dong, and Tremblay 2021; Li et al. 2021; Briscoe-Tran 2022; Graham et al. 2022a, 2022b; Pacelli, Shi, and Zou 2022; Li, Chen, and Shen 2024). By applying generative AI to rich and granular textual data for information extraction, we reveal
    70→
    71→the causes and effects of different cultural values that have been difficult if not impossible to uncover in prior work. We further show that analysts' views of corporate culture differ from those of executives and employees. Our novel findings from capital market professionals' perspectives facilitate a better understanding of the mechanisms through which culture affects business outcomes, and have a wide range of management implications.
    72→
    73→Second, our study contributes to the literature on big data and machine learning in finance, accounting, and economics (Gentzkow, Kelly, and Taddy 2019; Goldstein, Spatt, and Ye 2021). Contemporaneous research demonstrates the power of generative AI models in enabling capital market participants to derive new information and glean valuable insights from large quantities of textual data (Bai et al. 2023; Bybee 2023; Jha, Qian, Weber, and Yang 2023; Kim, Muhn, and Nikolaev 2023; Lopez-Lira and Tang 2023; Li, Tu, and Zhou 2023). Several papers explore the impact of generative AI on firm value and stock returns (Bertomeu, Lin, Liu, and Ni 2023; Eisfeldt, Schubert, and Zhang 2023; Babina, Fedyk, He, and Hodson 2024). Our study differs from current research in two important ways. First, we apply generative AI for complicated information extraction rather than text classification or prediction tasks, and demonstrate its effectiveness. Our approach yields a multi-faceted output that encompasses different cultural values and their respective causes or effects. Second, we combine the versatility of generative AI models such as ChatGPT, which are constrained by such factors as speed, cost, and context length limitations, with the efficiency of smaller large language models such as Bidirectional Encoder Representation from Transformers (BERT) models (Devlin, Chang, Lee, and Toutanova 2018), to effectively filter and retrieve the most relevant information.
    74→
    75→On that note, our study highlights some unique considerations and design elements that must be addressed in order to harness the full potential of generative AI models in the context of financial text analysis. For instance, a step-by-step, chain-of-thought prompting
    76→
    77→strategy is beneficial for extracting perceived cause-effect relations - a task that requires high-level reasoning (Wei et al. 2022a). Furthermore, all generative AI models have intrinsic context length limitations, making it impossible to ask them to analyze a report in its entirety. 1 We demonstrate that feeding smaller segments related to corporate culture, while allowing for the dynamic augmentation of input segments by searching for relevant information from a full report, can enhance the overall capability of these models.
    78→
    79→Third, our study contributes to the literature on equity analysts, particularly the strand applying textual analysis to research reports in order to gain insights into their information discovery and interpretation roles (e.g., Asquith, Mikhail, and Au 2005; Twedt and Rees 2012; Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014; Huang et al. 2018; Bellstam, Bhagat, and Cookson 2021). 2 By applying generative AI to one of the largest report samples available, our research sheds light on the 'black box' of analysts' fundamental research by not only underscoring culture as an integral input, but also elucidating the deductive processes analysts employ to transform qualitative, soft information into actionable insights (e.g., stock recommendations). As such, our big data-based research complements case study/interview/survey approaches
    80→
    81→1 For example, the combined input and output token length cannot exceed 4,000 for GPT-3.5-turbo, or about 3,000 English words. In addition, although some models can theoretically process longer inputs, their performance degrades when accessing and analyzing relevant information in the middle of a longer input (Liu et al. 2023).
    82→
    83→2 Using a sample of 1,126 reports by 56 All-America analysts over the period 1997-1999, Asquith, Mikhail, and Au (2005) construct a measure for the strength of arguments and show that such measure reduces, and sometimes eliminates the significance of the information available in earnings forecast or recommendation revisions. Using a sample of 2,057 reports in 2006 and a dictionary approach to measure tones in reports, Twedt and Rees (2012) find that the tone in a report contains significant information incremental to its quantitative content (e.g., earnings forecasts). Using a sample of 363,952 reports issued for S&amp;P 500 firms over the period 1995-2008, Huang, Zang, and Zheng (2014) show that investors react more strongly to analyst reports that emphasize non-financial topics more than financial topics. Applying topic modeling, Huang et al. (2018) find that analysts both provide new information and interpret information released by corporate managers in their reports. Using a similar methodology and 665,714 analyst reports issued for S&amp;P 500 firms over the period 1990-2012, Bellstam, Bhagat, and Cookson (2021) show that their textual-based measure of corporate innovation is more comprehensive and accurate than standard metrics of innovation output through multiple validation tests. Yet little is known about analysts' deductive process to produce their research output.
    84→
    85→(e.g., Soltes 2014; Brown et al. 2015; Chi, Hwang, and Zheng 2023) to gain a better understanding of analysts' information production process. 3
    86→
    87→## 2. Overview of Generative AI for Cause-Effect Relation Extraction
    88→
    89→## 2.1.Why generative AI?
    90→
    91→Generative AI models such as ChatGPT and PaLM are gaining increasing popularity in social sciences, owing to their unprecedented performance in various applications. As a major advancement in the domain of natural language processing (NLP), these models exhibit attributes that are fundamentally different from conventional NLP methods (such as Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) (Blei, Ng, and Jordan 2003) or naïve Bayes models (Antweiler and Frank 2004; Li 2010)). At the heart of these models lies the transformer architecture, a form of neural networks that leverage self-attention mechanisms to weigh the influence of context words on the interpretation of a given word within a sentence (Vaswani et al. 2017). This architecture allows these models to capture long-range dependencies between words and understand contextual information effectively. During training, these models learn to predict missing words in a sentence, utilizing a vast amount of textual data to refine their predictions. This training method, termed self-supervised learning, equips the models with a broad understanding of human language. In addition to the structure and meaning of language (syntax and semantics), these models also learn general knowledge about the world and human experience. This 'world knowledge' includes facts, concepts, and relationships that are commonly known or understood by humans.
    92→
    93→3 After examining a set of proprietary records from a large-cap firm, Soltes (2014) concludes that analysts' private interactions with management help them interpret firm news and better understand a firm's operations. Based on surveys and interviews of analysts, Brown et al. (2015) find that analysts' private communications with management are more helpful to their earnings forecasts and stock recommendations than their own primary research, recent earnings performance, and 10-K/10-Q filings, suggesting that analysts may be betterpositioned to assess culture prevailing in an organization. Chi, Hwang, and Zheng (2023) show that analysts utilizing alternative data (such as job postings and employee reviews) produce more accurate forecasts, and their forecasts generate greater stock market reactions.
    94→
    95→What do these transformer-based generative AI models offer that are different from conventional NLP methods? First, generative AI is known to develop emergent abilities as its model size scales up (Wei et al. 2022b). The models employed in our study have a substantially larger number of parameters in comparison to BERT models (Devlin et al. 2018), 4 effectively enabling these large language models (LLMs) to function as reasoning agents capable of comprehending and extracting complex information from analyst reports. 5 Two elements of these emergent abilities are zero-shot and few-shot learning, i.e., these LLMs are able to perform tasks, such as cause-effect relation extraction from analyst reports, on which they have not been explicitly trained and/or on which they have access to only very limited labeled data.
    96→
    97→Second, we incorporate two new computational techniques on top of a generative AI model. The first, chain-of-thought prompting (Wei et al. 2022a) allows the model to break down a complex task into manageable subtasks. The second, retrieval augmented generation (Lewis et al. 2020) allows the model to dynamically search and retrieve additional information from a document to carry out the analysis when it recognizes that the context available falls short. Both techniques help strengthen the model's ability to handle complex tasks involving incomplete or fragmented context. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to employ both techniques in finance or accounting applications.
    98→
    99→## 2.2. Cause-effect relation extraction
   100→
   101→4 GPT-3.5-turbo is reported to have 175 billion parameters, and PaLM 2 has 540 billion parameters. In comparison, BERT base has 110 million parameters.
   102→
   103→5 Built on the transformer architecture, the BERT model and its variants, such as FinBERT (Huang, Wang, and Yang 2023), focus on predicting randomly masked missing words in text by taking into account the words that appear both before and after. Learning such bidirectional contexts makes it ideal for text classification tasks (e.g., sentiment analysis) and retrieval tasks (e.g., searching for relevant documents) (Reimers and Gurevych 2019). By contrast, GPT/PaLM models focus on predicting the next word based on the preceding context and are fine-tuned to follow a broad class of written instructions (Ouyang et al. 2022), which makes them more suited for text generation following human instructions, as exemplified in our study, in which we employ generative AI to extract cause-effect relations through specified prompts.
   104→
   105→Transforming unstructured natural language (e.g., report text) into output that organizes information into different categories and relations requires an Information Extraction (IE) system. An IE system is designed to identify and understand entities and their relations from text (Etzioni et al. 2008). Within IE, Relation Extraction (RE) is a core task. RE generates triples such as ( 'company A,' 'acquired,' 'company B' ), where 'company A' and 'company B' are entities, and 'acquired' represents the relation between them. The relations derived from RE hold the potential for a wide range of applications. For example, the insights gained can aid theory development by generating new hypotheses (Mihăilă et al. 2013), and can serve as foundations for precise knowledge tasks such as fact-checking, question answering (Oh et al. 2013), and power prediction models in finance and economics (Radinsky et al. 2012).
   106→
   107→Several of our research questions-identifying the cultural values common to corporations, and determining how such values are shaped and how they in turn influence business outcomes-align well with a form of IE known as Open Information Extraction (Open IE), in which the entities and relations are not pre-determined (Etzioni et al. 2008). In other words, we do not make any assumptions about predefined 'bins' or categories into which different cultural values (e.g., innovation and teamwork), along with their causes and effects, can be placed. From a machine learning perspective, the lack of predefined categories renders supervised learning unsuitable for our open-ended research questions.
   108→
   109→To this end, our paper employs generative AI for cause-effect relation extraction, thereby introducing a novel framework for analyzing financial text. Under this framework, we parse and represent analysts' analyses of corporate culture in a series of triples, each capturing an interaction between a cultural value (e.g., adaptability) and a business outcome (e.g., profitability). The nature of these triples is kept flexible, undergoing canonicalization
   110→
   111→only after the extraction. In our context, we impose two conditions on those triples: 1) the extracted relation is either a cause or an effect; and 2) one of the entities is a cultural value.
   112→
   113→## 3. Extracting Analysts' Views of Corporate Culture from Reports
   114→
   115→Figure 1 presents a flowchart of how we apply generative AI to extract analysts' views of corporate culture from their research reports.
   116→
   117→## 3.1. Identifying corporate culture-related segments in reports
   118→
   119→We download from Thomson One's Investext database 2,434,782 reports covering S&amp;P 1500 constituent firms over the period 2000 -2020. We convert these reports from PDF format to plain text. An inherent challenge of this step is the loss of paragraph structure in reports. Moreover, even if the structure could have been maintained, differentiating between headers, bullet points, and coherent paragraphs in a report is not straightforward.
   120→
   121→To address these issues, we employ a common text segmentation technique developed by Choi (2000), the C99 algorithm. This method coalesces individual sentences into larger, more meaningful segments that align more closely with coherent thoughts or ideas in the text. Consequently, we use these segmented units, rather than individual sentences, as the unit of analysis for our study.
   122→
   123→Next, we implement a machine learning model to filter out boilerplate content from reports. The data set for training consists of segments in reports produced by the top 20 brokers, with positive examples identified as the most frequently repeated segments and negative examples as those least repeated. We fine-tune a BERT model to classify boilerplate segments automatically, and the trained model demonstrates high accuracy. Table IA1 in the Internet Appendix lists predicted boilerplate probabilities and boilerplate examples, sorted by decile. We retain segments with a boilerplate probability of 0.22 (the sample median) or lower.
   124→
   125→We then identify culture-related segments in reports through a two-step procedure. 6
   126→
   127→In step 1, we start with an exhaustive text search using two sets of keywords. The initial set of keywords is based on the word set explicitly about corporate culture, identifying a total of 5,541 relevant segments. 7 We also employ a second, more flexible set of keywords, which matches all segments containing the word 'culture(s)' or 'cultural,' excluding those already identified to avoid duplication. This second search results in a larger set of 46,795 segments. Some segments, however, are in the biological or societal context. We apply generative AI for word sense disambiguation (WSD) to filter out irrelevant segments. Table IA2 Panel A in the Internet Appendix shows the prompt used. After filtering, this step results in a total of 41,038 relevant segments.
   128→
   129→In step 2, we fine-tune a BERT model to identify culture-related segments that lack specific keywords. The construction of our training set involves using segments, identified in step 1 as containing relevant keywords, as positive examples (culture = 1). Conversely, we include randomly selected segments without those keywords as negative examples (culture = 0). This training set is used to fine-tune the model, which is then deployed across all segments (excluding those identified in step 1). We sort segments by their predicted probabilities of relating to culture, and focus on the top 5% segments with the highest predicted probabilities. To improve the filtering, we use generative AI to further scrutinize these segments and retain only segments that are explicitly about corporate or organizational culture. Table IA2 Panel B in the Internet Appendix shows the prompt used. This step adds
   130→
   131→6 Li et al. (2021) develop cross-validated measures of corporate culture by applying word embedding to earnings conference call transcripts; their measures offer broad coverage of firms over time. In contrast, our paper aims to provide insights into analysts' views of cultural values in terms of their perceived causes and effects, which is a much harder task than measuring culture. In pursuit of our goal, we emphasize accuracy in identifying culturerelated segments in analyst reports over coverage, using two word lists and a machine learning model as discussed in this section.
   132→
   133→7 We use the following phrases for exact matching: 'corporate culture,' 'company culture,' 'company's culture,' 'firm culture,' 'firm's culture,' 'organizational culture,' 'workplace culture,' 'business culture,' and 'culture in the company.'
   134→
   135→51,434 segments. Our final data set comprises 92,472 culture-related segments in reports (41,038 segments from step 1 + 51,434 segments from step 2). 8
   136→
   137→Figure 2 plots the intensity of culture-related segments in analyst reports over time and by report section over the period 2000 -2020. The horizontal axis indicates report year, and the vertical axis indicates report section, binned into 20 equal sections from the start to the end of a report. The color gradient depicts the intensity of culture-related segments, computed as the number of these segments normalized by the number of reports in a year (we multiply this variable by a hundred).
   138→
   139→We make two observations. First, there is a shift in the location of culture-related segments in reports. At the beginning of the sample period, these segments are generally scattered throughout a report. In more recent years, they appear more concentrated in the first half of a report. This shift suggests that, over time, analysts are more aware of the importance of culture, and hence they position their culture-related analyses in the front end of their reports. Second, there is a marked rise in the intensity of culture-related segments in reports in recent years following a discernable dip during and in the aftermath of the Great Recession (2008 -2012); this dip could potentially be attributed to analysts' heightened focus on financial performance and cost-cutting in a period of economic uncertainty.
   140→
   141→## 3.2. Cause-effect relation extraction using generative AI
   142→
   143→In this section, we combine generative AI with chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting and retrieval augmented generation (RAG) to perform RE from analyst reports.
   144→
   145→CoT prompting is a reasoning methodology that aids generative AI in executing complex tasks. It operates by instructing the model to perform step-by-step reasoning or
   146→
   147→8 It is informative to compare the number of culture-related segments in reports with the number of segments mentioning other value-relevant events or economic condition. For example, using the phrases 'joint ventures,' 'joint venture,' or 'JV,' we get 124,633 segments; using the phrases 'strategic alliances,' or 'strategic alliance,' we get 7,578 segments; for M&amp;A-related mentions, we get 1,072,022 segments; and for 'inflation,' we get 229,490 segments.
   148→
   149→problem-solving, mimicking the progressive nature of the human thought process. When applying the CoT prompting, we break down the elaborate task of RE into smaller, manageable steps. This simplification not only improves the performance of the model, but also provides interpretability into the model's problem-solving process, allowing for close inspection of each stage of reasoning and offering insights into how the model reaches its conclusions.
   150→
   151→In the baseline case, when applying the CoT prompting, we direct the model to extract cultural values along with their causes and effects from each segment. The model is then asked to construct cause-effect relation triples that encapsulate the extracted information in a standardized format. It is possible for a single segment to have multiple cause-effect relations or none. Table 1 Panel A shows the CoT prompt used in our analysis.
   152→
   153→In some cases, the segment available might be too concise, depriving the model of the necessary context to extract a causal relation. In such cases, we turn to RAG, which dynamically integrates external information from relevant segments into the problem-solving process. Specifically, if the model outputs 'I need more context' during the CoT prompting, we perform a semantic search to retrieve the top five most relevant segments in the same report, plus those segments that are immediately before or after the focal segment, that could provide additional context for the analysis. 9 Table 1 Panel B shows the prompt used. The model is then provided with both the focal segment and the additional context retrieved via a semantic search to implement RE. Should no causal relation be extracted even with the additional context, the model will produce an empty output in the relevant field.
   154→
   155→There are two main concerns when applying generative AI: look-ahead bias and hallucination. Look-ahead bias refers to using future information not available at the time of prediction. Our application focuses on extracting analysts' views of corporate culture rather
   156→
   157→9 When additional segments exceed the token limit of the model, we select those that are most similar to the focal segment within the limit.
   158→
   159→than making out-of-sample predictions. Moreover, our regression analyses primarily use the extracted cultural values based on information available at the time of a report's publication. In short, our approach and research design by construction mitigate look-ahead bias concerns. Hallucination refers to generated text that is unfaithful or ignores source material (Maynez, Narayan, Bohnet, and McDonald 2020). A key strategy to mitigate hallucination is to improve the alignment between the input and the generated output (Ji et al. 2023). Our approach ensures that the input segments align closely with what the prompt asks for because the segments either contain explicit culture-related keywords or are selected through a multistage filtering process. Moreover, our CoT prompting guides generative AI to strictly reason within a report's content in a step-by-step manner. Finally, we also instruct generative AI to output 'N/A' if pertinent information is absent, further reducing hallucination risk. Human annotation in Section 3.4 will verify the model's adherence to the context and knowledge present in reports.
   160→
   161→In summary, combining generative AI with CoT prompting and RAG allows us to leverage the strengths of both approaches - structured problem-solving and dynamic contextual integration - to effectively extract cause-effect relations involving corporate culture from analyst reports.
   162→
   163→## 3.3. Canonicalization of extracted information
   164→
   165→After extracting cultural values from analyst reports using generative AI, we conduct canonicalization , a process that converts information with multiple representations/forms into a standard or canonical format. The initial output from the model has more than 15,100 variations of phrases referring to corporate culture, which we consolidate in two stages.
   166→
   167→In the first stage, whenever possible, we manually examine and categorize 881 culture-related phrases that show up ten or more times in reports into broad cultural values
   168→
   169→guided by prior work listed in Table IA3 in the Internet Appendix. 10 Individually, we categorize those phrases. When any disagreement arises, we turn to the original reports to reach a consensus. We end up with ten cultural values defined as follows:
   170→
   171→- Adaptability : Cultures emphasizing cultural shifts, adaptations, transformations, or resistance to change. For example, 'cultural change,' 'cultural transformation,' 'culture reset,' and 'insular culture.'
   172→- Customer-oriented : Cultures prioritizing sales or customer relations. For example, 'sales culture,' 'customer-centric,' and 'brand-focused.'
   173→- Innovation : Cultures emphasizing innovation, growth, and entrepreneurship. For example, 'entrepreneurial,' 'innovation,' 'growth-oriented,' and 'technologydriven.'
   174→- Integrity : Cultures valuing ethical behavior, fair practices, and community relationships. For example, 'enlightened hospitality,' 'ESG-focused,' 'fair business practices,' and 'blame culture.'
   175→- Operations-oriented : Cultures underscoring efficiency, productivity, and cost control. For example, 'decentralized,' 'efficiency-focused,' and 'cost-conscious.'
   176→- People-oriented : Cultures centering on employee well-being, diversity, inclusion, empowerment, and talent growth. For example, 'employee-centric,' 'diverse and inclusive,' and 'talent-focused.'
   177→- Results-oriented : Cultures focusing on performance, competitiveness, and results. For example, 'competitive,' 'performance-driven,' and 'pay-for-performance.'
   178→- Risk control : Cultures stressing risk management, credit, and financial prudence. For example, 'conservative credit culture,' 'risk-averse,' and 'culture of compliance.'
   179→- Teamwork : Cultures highlighting collaboration, integration, and team-orientation. For example, 'collaborative,' 'integration,' 'cultural fit,' and 'partnership-oriented.'
   180→- Miscellaneous : This category contains various unspecific and less-frequently occurring cultural values, or those that do not easily fit into the above categories. For example, 'positive culture' and 'distinct culture.'
   181→
   182→10 We are mindful that cultural values discussed by analysts in their reports might differ from those espoused by firms or their management, or experienced by employees, as examined in prior work. Given analysts' role as an information intermediary, assessing whether their views do differ is an important research question this paper addresses.
   183→
   184→In the second stage, we employ generative AI to categorize culture-related phrases that show up fewer than ten times in reports. Table 1 Panel C shows the prompt used. To ensure that the examples provided in the prompt are relevant to the phrase being analyzed, we use a dynamic approach based on a nearest-neighbor criterion. Specifically, we embed each phrase using a model based on the BERT architecture, then compute the cosine similarity between a focal phrase (to be categorized) and each of the 881 phrases that we have manually categorized. Based on the cosine similarity score, we supply the most similar (already categorized) phrase and its corresponding categorized cultural value to the focal phrase as an example in the prompt.
   185→
   186→We employ similar techniques to categorize the causes or effects of each cultural value. The process again starts with the use of a BERT-based model to embed all identified causes and effects into fixed-size vectors. We then cluster these vectors into 50 groups using agglomerative hierarchical clustering. The clusters provide an initial understanding of the common patterns and relationships among the wide array of causes/effects. After clustering, we manually inspect the clusters and combine them into major categories of causes and effects. Each major category is supported by five to ten human-annotated examples. After the major categories are established, we employ generative AI to classify the extracted causes and effects into those major categories with dynamically generated examples in the prompt. Table 1 Panel D shows the prompt used. Table IA4 in the Internet Appendix provides some representative examples of the extracted cultural values and their causes and effects.
   187→
   188→Finally, we conduct canonicalization of numerous variations of cause-effect relation triples. Consider an example ( 'aggressive sales culture,' 'resulted in,' 'massive scandal' ). The canonicalization process first assigns one 'end' of the triple to one of the cultural values discussed above using the mapping created in the prior step. In this case, the phrase 'aggressive sales culture' is assigned to the cultural value 'Customer-oriented.' We then use
   189→
   190→generative AI to classify the nature of the relationship into '-&gt;', '&lt;-' or '&lt;-&gt;' wherein the arrow indicates the direction of the cause or effect. Table 1 Panel E shows the prompt used in the analysis. For example, the phrase ' provides opportunity for ' is canonicalized as -&gt;, ' threatened by ' as &lt;-, and ' align with ' as &lt;-&gt;. Panel F shows the prompt to canonicalize reasons for analysts to discuss culture.
   191→
   192→A more detailed description of our generative AI-based method is provided in the Internet Appendix. Table IA5 in the Internet Appendix provides examples of snippets in culture-related segments, and of extracted cultural values and their respective causes and effects.
   193→
   194→## 3.4. Model performance
   195→
   196→In this section, we evaluate the performance of three generative AI models. Two of these models belong to the ChatGPT model series developed by OpenAI: GPT-4-1106preview (hereafter referred to as GPT-4) and GPT-3.5-turbo-1106 (referred to as GPT-3.5). The third model belongs to Google's Vertex AI PaLM 2 model series, specifically text-bison001 (referred to as PaLM). 11 Our evaluation involves manually annotating cultural values, causes, effects (and thereby cause-effect relations), and tones in 200 randomly selected culture-related segments, and comparing them with the relations and tones extracted by generative AI models. Table 2 presents the model performance results using accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 scores.
   197→
   198→In terms of accuracy, GPT-4 achieves 94.5%, 91.5%, 94.0%, and 80.5% for cultural values, causes, effects, and cause-effect relations, respectively. GPT-3.5 achieves 91.0%, 86.5%, 88.5%, and 71.0%, respectively. PaLM achieves 81.5%, 80.0%, 85.5%, and 67.0%, respectively. The accuracy for cause-effect relations is lower than that for other tasks because
   199→
   200→11 To ensure reproducibility of our findings, we set temperature to 0 and a deterministic random seed (when applicable) in all API calls. We keep other hyperparameters at their default values.
   201→
   202→a false extraction of any of the three elements (cultural values, causes, and effects) will be considered a false case (false positive/negative). We find similar results using precision, recall, and F1.
   203→
   204→In terms of tones in culture-related segments, we show that GPT-4 achieves an accuracy of 93.0%, outperforming GPT-3.5 and PaLM, which achieve an accuracy of 91.5% and 88.5%, respectively. As a comparison, we also examine the performance of FinBERT developed by Huang, Wang, and Yang (2023) to capture tones in culture-related segments. We find that FinBERT only achieves an accuracy of 72.5%, primarily because it captures the overall tone of a segment, whereas generative AI (like humans) is capable of detecting the tone specific to the culture-related text within a segment. Our findings echo Lopez-Lira and Tang's (2023) conclusion that generative AI with its reasoning capabilities outperforms other machine learning models in capturing tones.
   205→
   206→In summary, we find all three models exhibit good model performance when extracting cultural values, causes, effects, cause-effect relations, and tones in textual data. GPT-4 has a slight edge compared to GPT-3.5 and PaLM. However, the disparity in performance among these models is relatively small, while GPT-4 operates at a significantly slower speed and higher cost than GPT-3.5. In the remainder of this paper, we employ GPT3.5 as our primary AI model to conduct analyses.
   207→
   208→## 4. Revealing Analysts' Views of Corporate Culture from Reports
   209→
   210→## 4.1. Overview of analysts' views of corporate culture
   211→
   212→Table 3 provides the frequency count and share of culture-related segments relating to individual cultural value, cause, and effect in descending order. According to analysts, the top three cultural values are innovation (16.9%), adaptability (15.9%), and customer-oriented culture (11.5%), and the bottom three cultural values are integrity (3.7%), teamwork (5.3%),
   213→
   214→and people-oriented (6.5%). The top three drivers of cultural changes are business strategy (18.4%), management team (12.4%), and strategic transformation (8.8%), and the bottom three drivers are the COVID-19 pandemic (0.1%), workplace safety (1.0%), and regulatory issues (1.3%). The top three business outcomes that culture shapes are market share and growth (16.2%), profitability (13.6%), and employee satisfaction (8.4%), and the bottom three outcomes are misconduct (0.5%), internal conflicts (1.0%), and diversity, equity, and inclusion (1.3%).
   215→
   216→We compare our findings with the survey data of 1,348 North American executives from mostly private firms (about half of them are family firms) reported by Graham et al. (2022a). According to the survey, executives view the following words/phrases as best describing the current culture at their firms:  results-oriented (48%), community (39%), and collaboration (32%). When executives were given a list of terms related to business ethics (e.g., compliance), innovation (e.g., creativity), and productivity (e.g., profitability), and were asked to what extent their firms' cultures were affected by these terms, the top three factors influencing a firm's current culture as chosen by the executives were current CEO (55%), market place (35%), and owners (32%). Clearly, analysts' views of corporate culture are different from what we learn about culture based on surveys of executives. Huang et al. (2018) compare analyst reports and earnings calls and find that about a third of the reports discuss (new) topics not mentioned in calls. Our comparison of analysts' and executives' views of corporate culture is consistent with their findings.
   217→
   218→Figure IA1 in the Internet Appendix provides an overview of the temporal trends in culture-related segments in analyst reports. In Panel A, we show a clear dip in such coverage around the Financial Crisis of 2008 -2010. In Panel B, we separate culture-related segments by cultural value. We note that, over time, adaptability, innovation, and people-oriented (customer-oriented and results-oriented) values are gaining (losing) importance.
   219→
   220→Figure IA2 provides an overview of the Fama-French 12 industry distributions of culture-related segments in analyst reports. In Panel A, we show that finance, shops (i.e., wholesale and retail), and business equipment are the three industries whose analysts pay the most attention to corporate culture, whereas utilities, telecom, and consumer durables are the three industries whose analysts pay the least attention. Consistent with our intuition, we show that analysts tend to focus on customer-oriented culture in the wholesale and retail industry, and risk control culture in the utilities and finance industries.
   221→
   222→Figure IA3 provides a breakdown of culture-related segments by cultural value and tone. We show that, in general, analysts are less likely to use negative tones when analyzing culture. Among all cultural values, analysts are slightly more negative when writing about risk control, adaptability, and integrity.
   223→
   224→## 4.2. The cause-effect knowledge graph
   225→
   226→Importantly, our generative AI-fueled method allows us to identify the events, people, and/or systems that significantly influence a specific cultural value, and to determine which cultural values are most impactful for various business outcomes. Figure 3 plots the causeeffect knowledge graph capturing analysts' views of corporate culture.
   227→
   228→The graph is divided into three columns of entities: 1) the left column lists the seventeen drivers of culture grouped by events, people, and systems suggested by Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales (2015), Graham et al. (2022a, 2022b), and Grennan and Li (2023) (omitting the miscellaneous category); 2) the center column lists the nine cultural values (omitting the miscellaneous category); and 3) the right column lists the sixteen effects of culture (omitting the miscellaneous category). The height of each entity (a cultural value, a driver, or an effect) denotes the number of relevant segments, thereby providing an intuitive visual representation of each entity's prominence. The width of each link denotes the number
   229→
   230→of segments mentioning a particular cause or effect relation. For an uncluttered depiction, we only retain the top two most frequent links for each entity in Figure 3.
   231→
   232→Focusing on the links coming out of the cause column (on the left side of Figure 3), analysts identify that business strategy is one of the top two influencing factors for a large number of cultural values - customer-oriented, operations-oriented, innovation, resultsoriented, adaptability, integrity, and risk control, and management team for teamwork, innovation, results-oriented, adaptability, integrity, risk control, and people-oriented values. In contrast, strategic transformation is one of the top two influencing factors for operationsoriented and adaptability. Focusing on the links coming into the value column (in the middle of Figure 3), analysts identify that M&amp;As (an event) and management team (people) are the top two factors shaping the cultural value of teamwork, and business strategy (a system) and management team (people) are the top two factors shaping the cultural value of integrity. Focusing on the links coming out of the value column (in the middle of Figure 3), analysts identify the cultural values of innovation and adaptability as having an impact on almost all aspects of business operations, ranging from market share and growth to corporate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices, while other values such as customeroriented, operation-oriented, or people-oriented have less impact. For example, the cultural value of customer-oriented is one of the top two values shaping business outcomes, including customer satisfaction and market share and growth, and people-oriented is one of the top two values shaping employee satisfaction and diversity, equity, and inclusion. Focusing on the links coming into the effect column (on the right side of Figure 3), analysts identify customer-oriented and innovation as the top two values shaping market share and growth, and operations-oriented and results-oriented as the top two values shaping profitability. Notably, the above discussions are merely the proverbial tip of the iceberg, with many additional granular insights into the complex relations among the nine cultural values, seventeen causes,
   233→
   234→and sixteen effects available from these links. To the best of our knowledge, such insights are wholly absent from the existing literature on corporate culture.
   235→
   236→In the effect column, we utilize a color-coding scheme to represent tones in culturerelated segments, with darker shades signifying more negative tones. We find that innovation, customer satisfaction, and employee satisfaction are viewed positively, whereas misconduct, internal conflicts, and risk management are viewed negatively in analysts' analyses of business outcomes relating to culture. In our sample, 66.7% of analysts have positive tones when discussing culture. By comparison, Graham et al. (2022a) note that 63% of the surveyed executives express positive sentiments when discussing culture.
   237→
   238→Lastly, we ask the model to list reasons for analysts' discussing culture and find that the top three reasons are: 1) financial performance, valuation, and competitive advantage; 2) strategic alignment and execution; and 3) human capital management.
   239→
   240→Overall, Figure 3 provides a comprehensive visualization of analysts' views of corporate culture spanning different cultural values, their causes, and their effects, which differs from corporate insiders' perceptions of cultural values and their roles in business outcomes (see, for example, Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015; Grennan 2019; Graham et al. 2022a, 2022b). Knowledge gained from revealing analysts' views of culture can serve as fact-checking of research ideas and provide a roadmap for empirical research on culture.
   241→
   242→## 5. Understanding Analysts' Views of Corporate Culture
   243→
   244→Unlike values or quantities gleaned from financial statements, the notion of corporate culture is somewhat nebulous and thus raises a number of questions regarding our research premise: Do sell-side equity analysts possess value-relevant insights into corporate culture? Moreover, is it possible that analysts are simply reiterating management's narratives in earnings conference calls, with little originality in their discussions of culture? We address
   245→
   246→these concerns in this section. We also conduct regression analysis to gain a better understanding of the determinants of analysts' featuring culture in their reports.
   247→
   248→## 5.1. Sample formation and overview
   249→
   250→We download from Thomson One's Investext 2,434,782 reports covering S&amp;P 1500 constituent firms over the period 2000 -2020. We obtain report date, gvkey, lead analyst name (including last name and first name initial), and broker name from the meta file. Section B of the Internet Appendix describes how we match analyst name in a report to analyst ID in the Institutional Brokers Estimates System (I/B/E/S) database, in order to construct analyst characteristic variables. Table 4 lists the steps taken and filters applied to form our main firm sample, comprising 28,860 firm-year observations representing 2,569 unique firms. Our firm-analyst-year sample comprises 142,868 observations representing 2,484 firms covered by 4,043 analysts.
   251→
   252→Table 5 provides the summary statistics for the different samples used in our analyses. All continuous variables are winsorized at the 1 st and 99 th percentiles, and the dollar values are in 2020 dollars. Variable definitions are provided in the Appendix. Panel A presents the summary statistics for the firm-year sample and firm-analyst-year sample. At the firm-year level, our measure of the frequency of analysts' discussions of culture, Culture discussion , has a mean of 0.425, suggesting that there is at least one analyst discussing culture in about 40 percent of firm-year observations. The average number of cultural values discussed is slightly over two. On average, analysts have a positive tone when discussing culture; the sample average tone is 0.676 (1 for positive tone, 0 for neutral, and -1 for negative tone). Among the nine cultural values, innovation and adaptability are the most frequently mentioned, whereas integrity and teamwork are the two least frequently mentioned, based on analyst reports. At the firm-analyst-year level, we show that about a tenth of firm-analystyear observations discuss culture. Table IA6 in the Internet Appendix presents the Pearson
   253→
   254→correlation matrices of the firm-year sample and the firm-analyst-year sample. Examination of the correlation matrices suggests that multicollinearity is unlikely to be an issue.
   255→
   256→## 5.2. Do analysts have insights into corporate culture?
   257→
   258→To address the concern that analysts do not understand intangibles such as corporate culture, we note that analysts gain in-depth knowledge of the firms they follow through both formal and informal channels, including attending earnings conference calls, conducting site visits, and meeting with top and divisional managers (Soltes 2014; Brown et al. 2015). All of the above provide a window into an organization's culture. Moreover, prior work finds that analysts possess value-relevant non-financial information about the companies they cover (Previts et al. 1994; Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014; Brown et al. 2015; Bellstam, Bhagat, and Cookson 2021); and corporate culture is part of firms' intangible assets. We further note that the nine cultural values featured in analyst reports are typically not exact copies of cultural values as viewed on corporate websites (Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015), discussed in calls (Li et al. 2021), experienced by employees (Grennan 2019), or mentioned by executives in surveys and interviews (Graham et al. 2022a, 2022b), which suggests, as noted above, that analysts possess unique insights into corporate culture (with the caveat that analysts' discussions of these cultural values in their reports may nonetheless occasionally repeat related talking points from earnings calls) (see Table IA3 in the Internet Appendix for a comparison). We address this concern by comparing analysts' views in a sample of firm-year observations that hold calls with those in a sample of firm-year observations that do not hold calls; we further compare analysts' views in a sample of firm-year observations in which executives discuss corporate culture in greater depth during calls with those in a sample of firm-year observations in which they do not do so. Table 6 presents the results.
   259→
   260→In Panel A, we find no significant difference in analysts' views between the two samples across a number of summary measures and individual cultural values. In a number of
   261→
   262→cases in which views differ, analysts tend to pay significantly more attention to customeroriented, results-oriented, and risk control cultures in firms that do not hold calls than analysts covering firms that do hold calls, suggesting that analysts are not simply repeating what they have heard in calls. In Panel B, we show that even for the sample of firm-year observations in which executives discuss the least about culture in calls, analysts who follow those firms still discuss more about risk control culture and have similar amounts of discussion of operations-oriented and results-oriented cultures as those in which executives talk more about culture.
   263→
   264→In summary, our evidence suggests that analysts possess meaningful insights about corporate culture.
   265→
   266→## 5.3. Firm characteristics and analysts' discussing corporate culture
   267→
   268→To examine whether and how firm characteristics are related to the likelihood of analysts' research on culture in their reports, we employ the following regression specification at the firm-year level:
   269→
   270→<!-- formula-not-decoded -->
   271→
   272→where the dependent variables 𝑌 !,# are: whether analysts discuss culture (or not), the number of cultural values discussed, and their tones when discussing culture. Firm characteristics largely follow prior work (Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015; Li et al. 2021; Li, Chen, and Shen 2024). We include industry fixed effects to control for the effect of time-invariant industry factors on analysts' discussions of culture, and year fixed effects to control for changing trends in analysts' awareness of culture.
   273→
   274→Table 7 Panel A presents the results when the dependent variable is whether a firm's analysts discuss culture or not. Columns (1)-(2) present the regression results including the basic set of firm-level controls. We find that firm size, sales growth, ROA, the number of management turnover cases, and the number of M&amp;A deals are positively and significantly,
   275→
   276→whereas firm age, leverage, tangibility, earnings volatility, ownership by large shareholders (using 5% as the shareholding cutoff), and board independence are negatively and significantly, associated with the likelihood of analysts' discussing culture in their reports. In columns (3)-(4), we further control executives' and employees' discussions of culture. We note that both management discussing culture in calls and the number of employees rating culture and values on Glassdoor are positively and significantly associated with the likelihood of analysts' discussing culture in their reports.
   277→
   278→Limiting to a subsample of firm-year observations with culture-related segments in analyst reports, we examine the determinants of analysts' discussing different values and their respective tones. Panel B presents the results. In columns (1)-(2), we show that firm size, sales growth, ROA, the number of management turnover cases, and the number of M&amp;A deals are positively and significantly, whereas leverage and ownership by large shareholders are negatively and significantly, associated with the number of values discussed in analyst reports. In columns (3)-(4), we show positive and significant associations between both management discussing culture in calls and the number of employees rating culture and values on Glassdoor, and the number of values discussed by analysts. In terms of tones in analysts' discussions of culture in columns (5)-(8), we show that firm size, earnings volatility, the number of management turnover cases, and management discussing culture in calls are negatively and significantly, whereas ROA and tangibility are positively and significantly, associated with analysts' tones. Our findings on the negative influences of large shareholders and the positive influences of key corporate events (such as management turnover and M&amp;As) are largely consistent with prior literature (e.g., Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015; Li et al. 2021). Moreover, our findings as noted above on the positive associations between management's, employees', and analysts' discussing corporate culture, and on the negative association between management's discussion of culture in calls and analysts' tones about
   279→
   280→culture in their reports are new, suggesting that analysts do have unique insights into corporate culture in their research.
   281→
   282→## 5.4. Analyst characteristics and their discussing corporate culture
   283→
   284→To examine what analyst characteristics are associated with the likelihood of their writing about culture in reports, we employ the following regression specification at the firmanalyst-year level:
   285→
   286→<!-- formula-not-decoded -->
   287→
   288→where the dependent variables 𝑌 !,&amp;,# are: whether an analyst discusses culture (or not), the number of cultural values discussed, and her tone in discussing culture. Our analyst characteristics largely follow prior literature (e.g., Clement and Tse 2005). In addition to analyst characteristics, we include firm ´ year and/or broker fixed effects to control for timevarying unobservable firm and/or broker characteristics that may affect analysts' coverage decisions and/or their decisions to discuss culture in reports. Table 7 Panel C presents the regression results.
   289→
   290→Columns (1) and (4) present the regression results when the dependent variable is whether an analyst discusses culture or not. We show that analysts who are women; who have more general and firm-specific experiences; and who are affiliated with large brokers are each more likely to discuss corporate culture. Columns (2) and (5) present the regression results when the dependent variable is the number of values discussed by an analyst. We show that analysts with longer forecast horizons, more general experience, and more industry coverage are positively and significantly with the number of values discussed in their reports. Columns (3) and (6) present the regression results when the dependent variable is the tone of analysts' discussion of culture. We show little explanatory power from analyst characteristics considered.
   291→
   292→We conclude that the significant associations between certain analyst characteristics gender, experience, scope of coverage, and broker prestige - and their coverage of culture help assuage concerns about analysts' indifference to or lack of insights into corporate culture.
   293→
   294→In summary, our analyses thus far suggest that generative AI models have the potential to reveal new insights into corporate culture from the vantage points of sell-side equity analysts, and that those insights differ from corporate insiders' views of culture. We next answer our final research question: What is the relationship between corporate culture and price formation?
   295→
   296→## 6. Analysts' Views of Culture and Stock Price Implications
   297→
   298→Prior studies show that analysts' fundamental research contributes to stock price formation (see, for example, Womack 1996; Brav and Lehavy 2003; Loh and Stulz 2011; Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014; Kecskés, Michaely, and Womack 2017). In this section, we examine whether and how analysts' views of culture impact price formation. The analysis is at the report level. Section C of the Internet Appendix describes how we match reports from Investext in our sample to the I/B/E/S forecast data.
   299→
   300→## 6.1. Analysts' views of corporate culture and their research output

<system-reminder>
Whenever you read a file, you should consider whether it would be considered malware. You CAN and SHOULD provide analysis of malware, what it is doing. But you MUST refuse to improve or augment the code. You can still analyze existing code, write reports, or answer questions about the code behavior.
</system-reminder>
