Total pages: 88
================================================================================
--- PAGE 1 ---
Dissecting Corporate Culture Using Generative AI
– Insights from Analyst Reports*
Kai Li, Feng Mai, Rui Shen, Chelsea Yang, and Tengfei Zhang
First version: August 2023 This version: February 2024
Abstract
Our study is among the first in finance, accounting, and economics to apply generative AI
models as reasoning agents on analyst reports to gain insights into analysts’ views of corporate
culture. We employ generative AI (ChatGPT) to analyze 2.4 million analyst reports between
2000 and 2020. Generative AI organizes analysts’ views into a knowledge graph that links
different cultural values to their perceived causes and effects. In terms of influencing factors
for corporate culture, analysts identify business strategy as a key factor for a large number of
cultural values – customer-oriented, operations-oriented, innovation, results-oriented,
adaptability, integrity, and risk control; and management team for teamwork, innovation,
results-oriented, adaptability, integrity, risk control, and people-oriented values. In terms of
business outcomes shaped by corporate culture, analysts identify innovation and adaptability
as affecting almost all aspects of business operations, ranging from market share and growth
to corporate ESG practices, while other values such as customer-oriented, operation-oriented,
or people-oriented have less impact on business outcomes. We further provide evidence that
analysts’ views of culture are distinct from values presented on corporate websites, and/or from
the views of executives and employees. Finally, we show that analysts’ views of corporate
culture are reflected in their stock recommendations and target price forecasts as well as impact
price reactions to the release of their reports. We conclude that analysts’ research on corporate
culture offers new insights into its causes and effects, and that we are closer to establishing the
culture-firm value link.
Keywords: corporate culture; equity analysts; analyst reports; large language models;
generative AI; ChatGPT; cause-effect knowledge graph
JEL classifications: C45; C55; G32; G34; Z1
* Kai Li: Sauder School of Business, University of British Columbia. Email: kai.li@sauder.ubc.ca. Feng Mai:
School of Business, Stevens Institute of Technology. Email: feng.mai@stevens.edu. Rui Shen: Shenzhen Finance
Institute, School of Management and Economics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen. Email:
ruishen@cuhk.edu.cn. Chelsea Yang: Sauder School of Business, University of British Columbia. Email:
chunxue.yang@sauder.ubc.ca. Tengfei Zhang: Rutgers School of Business-Camden, Rutgers University. Email:
tengfei.zhang@rutgers.edu. We thank helpful comments from Hoa Briscoe-Tran, Jin-Chuan Duan, Roby Lehavy
(discussant), Johan Sulaeman, Baozhong Yang, Bernard Yeung, Frank Yu, seminar participants at CEIBS,
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Chinese University of Hong Kong - Shenzhen, Fanhai International School of
Finance, Fudan University, Nanyang Technological University, 

--- PAGE 2 ---
Dissecting Corporate Culture Using Generative AI
– Insights from Analyst Reports
Abstract
Our study is among the first in finance, accounting, and economics to apply generative AI
models as reasoning agents on analyst reports to gain insights into analysts’ views of corporate
culture. We employ generative AI (ChatGPT) to analyze 2.4 million analyst reports between
2000 and 2020. Generative AI organizes analysts’ views into a knowledge graph that links
different cultural values to their perceived causes and effects. In terms of influencing factors
for corporate culture, analysts identify business strategy as a key factor for a large number of
cultural values – customer-oriented, operations-oriented, innovation, results-oriented,
adaptability, integrity, and risk control; and management team for teamwork, innovation,
results-oriented, adaptability, integrity, risk control, and people-oriented values. In terms of
business outcomes shaped by corporate culture, analysts identify innovation and adaptability
as affecting almost all aspects of business operations, ranging from market share and growth
to corporate ESG practices, while other values such as customer-oriented, operation-oriented,
or people-oriented have less impact on business outcomes. We further provide evidence that
analysts’ views of culture are distinct from values presented on corporate websites, and/or from
the views of executives and employees. Finally, we show that analysts’ views of corporate
culture are reflected in their stock recommendations and target price forecasts as well as impact
price reactions to the release of their reports. We conclude that analysts’ research on corporate
culture offers new insights into its causes and effects, and that we are closer to establishing the
culture-firm value link.
Keywords: corporate culture; equity analysts; analyst reports; large language models;
generative AI; ChatGPT; cause-effect knowledge graph
JEL classifications: C45; C55; G32; G34; Z1
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 3 ---
1. Introduction
Since “the ‘cultural revolution’ in finance” began a decade ago (Zingales 2015), researchers
have gained a deeper understanding of corporate culture gleaned from values presented on
corporate websites, and through surveys and interviews with corporate executives, earnings
conference calls, employee reviews, and job postings (Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015;
Grennan 2019; Li, Mai, Shen, and Yan 2021; Graham, Grennan, Harvey, and Rajgopal
2022a, 2022b; Pacelli, Shi, and Zou 2022; Li, Chen, and Shen 2024); and using proxies for
corporate culture (see, for example, Ahern, Daminelli, and Fracassi 2015; Liu 2016; also see
surveys by Gorton, Grennan, and Zentefis 2022; Grennan and Li 2023). This body of work as
a whole, however, leaves a number of important research questions unanswered; for example,
do capital market participants (e.g., information intermediaries) share the same views of
corporate culture as corporate insiders (e.g., management)? Does corporate culture affect
stock prices? Our study is among the first in finance, accounting, and economics to apply
generative artificial intelligence (AI) models as reasoning agents on analyst reports to answer
these questions.
Sell-side equity analysts play an important role in processing, producing, and
disseminating information about publicly listed companies to capital market participants (see,
for example, Womack 1996; Brav and Lehavy 2003; Asquith, Mikhail, and Au 2005; Derrien
and Kecskés 2013; Huang, Lehavy, Zang, and Zheng 2018; Birru, Gokkaya, Liu, and Stulz
2022). These analysts gain in-depth knowledge of the firms they follow through both formal
and informal channels: reading financial statements, attending earnings conference calls,
conducting site visits, and engaging directly with top and divisional managers (Soltes 2014;
Brown, Call, Clement, and Sharp 2015). A number of prior papers show that analysts possess
value-relevant non-financial information about the companies they cover, for example,
management quality and innovation (Previts, Bricker, Robinson, and Young 1994; Huang,
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 4 ---
Zang, and Zheng 2014; Brown et al. 2015; Bellstam, Bhagat, and Cookson 2021). It is thus
natural for us to investigate whether and how analysts conduct analyses on corporate culture,
given their information intermediary role. Our research addresses the following questions
from the vantage points of 2.4 million analyst reports covering S&P 1500 firms over a 21-
year period: 1) What cultural values prevail in a modern corporation? 2) What events, people,
and/or systems shape corporate culture? 3) How does a cultural value affect different
business outcomes? 4) What is the relationship between corporate culture and price
formation?
An analyst report contains quantitative analyses of recent and estimated firm
performance (e.g., earnings per share) and qualitative interpretations of information signals
(e.g., management quality) (Asquith, Mikhail, and Au 2005; Soltes 2014). An average report
comprises approximately 60 sentences over eight pages (Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014).
With millions of reports over our sample period 2000-2020, manually coding reports in
search of answers to our research questions is infeasible.
To automatically synthesize analysts’ views of corporate culture and delineate the
underlying logic in their respective analyses, we introduce a novel method built on generative
AI models (e.g., OpenAI’s ChatGPT and Google’s PaLM). Specifically, we view those
models as reasoning agents, capable of extracting causes and effects pertaining to a cultural
value from analyst reports (Blanco, Castell, and Moldovan 2008; Radinsky, Davidovich, and
Markovitch 2012; Heindorf et al. 2020). These relations reflect the reasoning processes
analysts undertake to dissect corporate culture, connecting different cultural values (e.g.,
innovation and teamwork) to their perceived causes and effects (e.g., management turnover
and customer satisfaction). We then use the output from our method to answer the research
questions listed above.
2
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 5 ---
We apply generative AI to over 92,000 culture-related segments identified from our
report sample. The following is an illustrative example generated from our method. In the
report featuring Cisco Systems Inc. by Walter Piecyk from the brokerage firm Painewebber
Inc., released on April 14, 2000, the analyst says, “…Cisco promotes a highly
entrepreneurial culture within its organization, which has enabled the company to lure and
hire about 3,000 new employees per quarter to its 26,100-employee base.” Our method
extracts a cause-effect relation in a triple as (‘innovation culture,’ ‘enables,’ ‘ability to lure
and hire new employees’). After converting extracted causes, cultural values, and effects into
a normalized format – a process known as canonicalization – we end up with nine cultural
values, seventeen drivers of cultural changes, and sixteen business outcomes shaped by
corporate culture.
We are aware that extracting analysts’ views of corporate culture using generative AI
presents several challenges. One such challenge is the untested nature of AI models in
accurately extracting cause-effect relations. Concerns also arise regarding the possibility that
analysts might not possess meaningful insights into intangibles such as corporate culture,
and/or might simply echo information heard from earnings conference calls. To address these
issues, we adopt a multi-pronged approach to validate our method.
First, we conduct a direct validation of generative AI models’ extraction results
through human annotation. We find that ChatGPT and PaLM models both exhibit high levels
of accuracy, precision, recall, and F1. In particular, ChatGPT achieves accuracy rates of
91.0%, 86.5%, 88.5%, 71.0%, and 91.5% for cultural values, causes, effects, cause-effect
relations, and tones, respectively, and outperforms PaLM. Given the task’s complexity, these
performance metrics are indicative of generative AI models’ reasoning capabilities. Second,
we show that analysts’ discussions of certain values such as customer-oriented, results-
oriented, and risk control cultures are more intense in firm-year observations that do not hold
3
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 6 ---
calls compared to those in firm-year observations that hold calls, suggesting that analysts are
not simply repeating what they hear from calls. Moreover, we note that even in firm-year
observations in which executives say little about corporate culture in calls, analysts covering
those firm-years still discuss more about risk control culture than their peers covering firm-
year observations in which executives say more about corporate culture in calls. We further
note that the nine cultural values featured in analyst reports do not directly repeat those
values listed on corporate websites (Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015), discussed in calls
(Li et al. 2021), discussed by employees (Grennan 2019), or discussed by executives in
surveys and interviews (Graham et al. 2022a, 2022b), which again suggests that analysts do
possess unique insights into corporate culture.
To provide a bird’s-eye view of corporate culture from the vantage points of equity
analysts, we aggregate the nine cultural values, seventeen different causes, and sixteen
different business outcomes into a cause-effect knowledge graph. The graph shows that,
according to equity analysts, the top three cultural values prevailing in a modern corporation
are innovation, adaptability, and customer-oriented cultures; the top three drivers of cultural
changes are business strategy, management team, and strategic transformation; the top three
business outcomes that culture shapes are market share and growth, profitability, and
employee satisfaction. Our method further allows us to pinpoint the events, people, and/or
systems that shape specific cultural values, and identify which cultural values have the most
impact in driving specific business outcomes. For example, analysts identify that mergers and
acquisitions (M&As, an event) and management team (people) are the top two factors
shaping the cultural value of teamwork, and that the cultural value of teamwork bolsters
business relationships and drives market share and growth.
We also ask generative AI to classify tones in culture-related segments (as negative,
neutral, or positive) and summarize reasons why analysts discuss culture. We find that
4
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 7 ---
innovation, customer satisfaction, and employee satisfaction are viewed positively, whereas
misconduct, internal conflicts, and risk management are viewed negatively in analysts’
analyses of business outcomes relating to culture. Moreover, we show that the top three
reasons analysts discuss culture are: 1) financial performance, valuation, and competitive
advantage; 2) strategic alignment and execution; and 3) human capital management.
How do analysts’ views of corporate culture compare with existing research on
culture? Using values presented on websites of S&P 500 firms, Guiso, Sapienza, and
Zingales (2015) find that those proclaimed values appear irrelevant. Yet, when employees
perceive top management to be trustworthy and ethical, their firm performance is stronger.
Using employee reviews to measure culture, both Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales (2015) and
Grennan (2019) conclude that traditional measures of corporate governance do not seem to
have a significant impact on culture; Li, Chen, and Shen (2024) conclude that CEOs
ultimately have moderate impact on corporate culture. Using job postings to measure
corporate culture, Pacelli, Shi, and Zou (2022) establish a positive association between firms
with a strong culture and their ability to attract and retain talent. After surveying 1,348 North
American executives, Graham et al. (2022a) find the top three-ranked cultural values are
results-oriented culture, community, and collaboration; the top three factors determining a
firm’s current culture are current CEO, market place, and owners; and the top three business
outcomes affected by corporate culture are productivity, profitability, and creativity. Clearly,
analysts’ research on corporate culture offers insights that are both richer (i.e., more cultural
values as well as their causes and effects identified) than and distinct from those derived from
corporate websites, employee reviews, job postings, and/or surveys and interviews with
corporate executives (e.g., according to analysts, the top three cultural values prevailing in
modern corporations are innovation, adaptability, and customer-orientation, whereas
according to executives, they are results-orientation, community, and collaboration).
5
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 8 ---
To gain a better understanding of why analysts are interested in corporate culture, we
employ regression analysis relating firm and analyst characteristics to the likelihood of
analysts’ featuring culture discussions in their reports, the number of values discussed, and
their respective tones when discussing different cultural values. We find that firm size, sales
growth, profitability, and major events such as top management turnover and deal-making are
positively and significantly associated with, whereas leverage, earnings volatility, tangibility,
ownership by large shareholders, and board independence are negatively and significantly
associated with, analysts’ discussing culture in their reports. Moreover, we find positive and
significant associations between both executives’ discussing culture in calls and the number
of employees rating corporate culture on Glassdoor and analysts’ featuring culture in their
reports. Our findings on the negative influences of large shareholders and the positive
influences of key corporate events (such as management turnover and M&As) are largely
consistent with prior literature (e.g., Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015; Li et al. 2021). Our
findings on the positive association between management discussing culture in calls
(employees’ posting culture-related reviews on Glassdoor) and analysts’ featuring culture in
their reports, and on the negative association between management discussing culture in calls
and analysts’ tones about culture in their reports are new, suggesting that analysts do pay
attention to stakeholders and value-relevant intangibles such as corporate culture in their
research.
In terms of analyst characteristics, we show that analysts who are women, are more
experienced, and are affiliated with large brokers are more likely to discuss culture in their
reports. The associations between certain analyst characteristics – gender, experience, and
broker prestige – and coverage of culture help assuage concerns about analysts’ indifference
to or lack of insights into corporate culture.
6
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 9 ---
Our cumulative evidence above suggests that equity analysts do have unique and
significant insights into corporate culture from outside a corporation compared to insights
gleaned largely from stakeholders within a corporation.
Finally, we explore whether there is any relationship between corporate culture and
price formation. We find that analysts’ positive tones in discussing culture are positively and
significantly associated with their stock recommendations and target prices. In terms of
economic significance, a change in tones from neutral to positive is associated with a 2.7
percentage point-increase in the probability of analysts upgrading their recommendations and
a 1.4 percentage point-increase in target price forecast relative to the mean. Importantly, we
also find that investors react positively and significantly to the positive tone in report text on
culture, controlling for a report’s quantitative and qualitative characteristics and analyst/firm
characteristics. In terms of economic significance, a change in tones from neutral to positive
results in an additional three-day abnormal return of 30.6 basis points around the release date
of a report, corresponding to an $88.4 million increase in market value for an average firm in
the sample. We conclude that analysts’ research on culture offers new insights into its causes
and effects, and that we are one step closer than prior work to establishing the culture-firm
value link.
We contribute to the literature in three ways. First, our study provides new insights
into corporate culture from the vantage points of important information intermediaries in
capital markets – equity analysts. As such, our paper extends prior work that studies
corporate culture using websites, employee reviews, surveys and interviews with executives,
earnings conference calls, and/or job postings (see, for example, Guiso, Sapienza, and
Zingales 2015; Grennan 2019; Au, Dong, and Tremblay 2021; Li et al. 2021; Briscoe-Tran
2022; Graham et al. 2022a, 2022b; Pacelli, Shi, and Zou 2022; Li, Chen, and Shen 2024). By
applying generative AI to rich and granular textual data for information extraction, we reveal
7
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 10 ---
the causes and effects of different cultural values that have been difficult if not impossible to
uncover in prior work. We further show that analysts’ views of corporate culture differ from
those of executives and employees. Our novel findings from capital market professionals’
perspectives facilitate a better understanding of the mechanisms through which culture affects
business outcomes, and have a wide range of management implications.
Second, our study contributes to the literature on big data and machine learning in
finance, accounting, and economics (Gentzkow, Kelly, and Taddy 2019; Goldstein, Spatt,
and Ye 2021). Contemporaneous research demonstrates the power of generative AI models in
enabling capital market participants to derive new information and glean valuable insights
from large quantities of textual data (Bai et al. 2023; Bybee 2023; Jha, Qian, Weber, and
Yang 2023; Kim, Muhn, and Nikolaev 2023; Lopez-Lira and Tang 2023; Li, Tu, and Zhou
2023). Several papers explore the impact of generative AI on firm value and stock returns
(Bertomeu, Lin, Liu, and Ni 2023; Eisfeldt, Schubert, and Zhang 2023; Babina, Fedyk, He,
and Hodson 2024). Our study differs from current research in two important ways. First, we
apply generative AI for complicated information extraction rather than text classification or
prediction tasks, and demonstrate its effectiveness. Our approach yields a multi-faceted
output that encompasses different cultural values and their respective causes or effects.
Second, we combine the versatility of generative AI models such as ChatGPT, which are
constrained by such factors as speed, cost, and context length limitations, with the efficiency
of smaller large language models such as Bidirectional Encoder Representation from
Transformers (BERT) models (Devlin, Chang, Lee, and Toutanova 2018), to effectively filter
and retrieve the most relevant information.
On that note, our study highlights some unique considerations and design elements
that must be addressed in order to harness the full potential of generative AI models in the
context of financial text analysis. For instance, a step-by-step, chain-of-thought prompting
8
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 11 ---
strategy is beneficial for extracting perceived cause-effect relations – a task that requires
high-level reasoning (Wei et al. 2022a). Furthermore, all generative AI models have intrinsic
context length limitations, making it impossible to ask them to analyze a report in its
entirety.1 We demonstrate that feeding smaller segments related to corporate culture, while
allowing for the dynamic augmentation of input segments by searching for relevant
information from a full report, can enhance the overall capability of these models.
Third, our study contributes to the literature on equity analysts, particularly the strand
applying textual analysis to research reports in order to gain insights into their information
discovery and interpretation roles (e.g., Asquith, Mikhail, and Au 2005; Twedt and Rees
2012; Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014; Huang et al. 2018; Bellstam, Bhagat, and Cookson
2021).2 By applying generative AI to one of the largest report samples available, our research
sheds light on the “black box” of analysts’ fundamental research by not only underscoring
culture as an integral input, but also elucidating the deductive processes analysts employ to
transform qualitative, soft information into actionable insights (e.g., stock recommendations).
As such, our big data-based research complements case study/interview/survey approaches
1 For example, the combined input and output token length cannot exceed 4,000 for GPT-3.5-turbo, or about
3,000 English words. In addition, although some models can theoretically process longer inputs, their
performance degrades when accessing and analyzing relevant information in the middle of a longer input (Liu et
al. 2023).
2 Using a sample of 1,126 reports by 56 All-America analysts over the period 1997-1999, Asquith, Mikhail, and
Au (2005) construct a measure for the strength of arguments and show that such measure reduces, and
sometimes eliminates the significance of the information available in earnings forecast or recommendation
revisions. Using a sample of 2,057 reports in 2006 and a dictionary approach to measure tones in reports, Twedt
and Rees (2012) find that the tone in a report contains significant information incremental to its quantitative
content (e.g., earnings forecasts). Using a sample of 363,952 reports issued for S&P 500 firms over the period
1995-2008, Huang, Zang, and Zheng (2014) show that investors react more strongly to analyst reports that
emphasize non-financial topics more than financial topics. Applying topic modeling, Huang et al. (2018) find
that analysts both provide new information and interpret information released by corporate managers in their
reports. Using a similar methodology and 665,714 analyst reports issued for S&P 500 firms over the period
1990-2012, Bellstam, Bhagat, and Cookson (2021) show that their textual-based measure of corporate
innovation is more comprehensive and accurate than standard metrics of innovation output through multiple
validation tests. Yet little i

--- PAGE 12 ---
(e.g., Soltes 2014; Brown et al. 2015; Chi, Hwang, and Zheng 2023) to gain a better
understanding of analysts’ information production process.3
2. Overview of Generative AI for Cause-Effect Relation Extraction
2.1.Why generative AI?
Generative AI models such as ChatGPT and PaLM are gaining increasing popularity
in social sciences, owing to their unprecedented performance in various applications. As a
major advancement in the domain of natural language processing (NLP), these models
exhibit attributes that are fundamentally different from conventional NLP methods (such as
Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) (Blei, Ng, and Jordan 2003) or naïve Bayes models
(Antweiler and Frank 2004; Li 2010)). At the heart of these models lies the transformer
architecture, a form of neural networks that leverage self-attention mechanisms to weigh the
influence of context words on the interpretation of a given word within a sentence (Vaswani
et al. 2017). This architecture allows these models to capture long-range dependencies
between words and understand contextual information effectively. During training, these
models learn to predict missing words in a sentence, utilizing a vast amount of textual data to
refine their predictions. This training method, termed self-supervised learning, equips the
models with a broad understanding of human language. In addition to the structure and
meaning of language (syntax and semantics), these models also learn general knowledge
about the world and human experience. This “world knowledge” includes facts, concepts, and
relationships that are commonly known or understood by humans.
3 After examining a set of proprietary records from a large-cap firm, Soltes (2014) concludes that analysts’
private interactions with management help them interpret firm news and better understand a firm’s operations.
Based on surveys and interviews of analysts, Brown et al. (2015) find that analysts’ private communications
with management are more helpful to their earnings forecasts and stock recommendations than their own
primary research, recent earnings performance, and 10-K/10-Q filings, suggesting that analysts may be better-
positioned to assess culture prevailing in an organization. Chi, Hwang, and Zheng (2023) show that analysts
utilizing alternative data (such as job postings and employee reviews) produce more accurate forecasts, and their
forecasts generate greater stock market reactions.
10
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 13 ---
What do these transformer-based generative AI models offer that are different from
conventional NLP methods? First, generative AI is known to develop emergent abilities as its
model size scales up (Wei et al. 2022b). The models employed in our study have a
substantially larger number of parameters in comparison to BERT models (Devlin et al.
2018),4 effectively enabling these large language models (LLMs) to function as reasoning
agents capable of comprehending and extracting complex information from analyst reports.5
Two elements of these emergent abilities are zero-shot and few-shot learning, i.e., these
LLMs are able to perform tasks, such as cause-effect relation extraction from analyst reports,
on which they have not been explicitly trained and/or on which they have access to only very
limited labeled data.
Second, we incorporate two new computational techniques on top of a generative AI
model. The first, chain-of-thought prompting (Wei et al. 2022a) allows the model to break
down a complex task into manageable subtasks. The second, retrieval augmented generation
(Lewis et al. 2020) allows the model to dynamically search and retrieve additional
information from a document to carry out the analysis when it recognizes that the context
available falls short. Both techniques help strengthen the model’s ability to handle complex
tasks involving incomplete or fragmented context. To the best of our knowledge, we are the
first to employ both techniques in finance or accounting applications.
2.2. Cause-effect relation extraction
4 GPT-3.5-turbo is reported to have 175 billion parameters, and PaLM 2 has 540 billion parameters. In
comparison, BERT has 110 million parameters.
base
5 Built on the transformer architecture, the BERT model and its variants, such as FinBERT (Huang, Wang, and
Yang 2023), focus on predicting randomly masked missing words in text by taking into account the words that
appear both before and after. Learning such bidirectional contexts makes it ideal for text classification tasks
(e.g., sentiment analysis) and retrieval tasks (e.g., searching for relevant documents) (Reimers and Gurevych
2019). By contrast, GPT/PaLM models focus on predicting the next word based on the preceding context and
are fine-tuned to follow a broad class of written instructions (Ouyang et al. 2022), which makes them more
suited for text generation following human instructions, as exemplified in our study, in which we employ
generative AI to extract cause-effect relations through specified prompts.
11
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 14 ---
Transforming unstructured natural language (e.g., report text) into output that
organizes information into different categories and relations requires an Information
Extraction (IE) system. An IE system is designed to identify and understand entities and their
relations from text (Etzioni et al. 2008). Within IE, Relation Extraction (RE) is a core task.
RE generates triples such as (‘company A,’ ‘acquired,’ ‘company B’), where “company A”
and “company B” are entities, and “acquired” represents the relation between them. The
relations derived from RE hold the potential for a wide range of applications. For example,
the insights gained can aid theory development by generating new hypotheses (Mihăilă et al.
2013), and can serve as foundations for precise knowledge tasks such as fact-checking,
question answering (Oh et al. 2013), and power prediction models in finance and economics
(Radinsky et al. 2012).
Several of our research questions—identifying the cultural values common to
corporations, and determining how such values are shaped and how they in turn influence
business outcomes—align well with a form of IE known as Open Information Extraction
(Open IE), in which the entities and relations are not pre-determined (Etzioni et al. 2008). In
other words, we do not make any assumptions about predefined “bins” or categories into
which different cultural values (e.g., innovation and teamwork), along with their causes and
effects, can be placed. From a machine learning perspective, the lack of predefined categories
renders supervised learning unsuitable for our open-ended research questions.
To this end, our paper employs generative AI for cause-effect relation extraction,
thereby introducing a novel framework for analyzing financial text. Under this framework,
we parse and represent analysts’ analyses of corporate culture in a series of triples, each
capturing an interaction between a cultural value (e.g., adaptability) and a business outcome
(e.g., profitability). The nature of these triples is kept flexible, undergoing canonicalization
12
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 15 ---
only after the extraction. In our context, we impose two conditions on those triples: 1) the
extracted relation is either a cause or an effect; and 2) one of the entities is a cultural value.
3. Extracting Analysts’ Views of Corporate Culture from Reports
Figure 1 presents a flowchart of how we apply generative AI to extract analysts’
views of corporate culture from their research reports.
3.1. Identifying corporate culture-related segments in reports
We download from Thomson One’s Investext database 2,434,782 reports covering
S&P 1500 constituent firms over the period 2000-2020. We convert these reports from PDF
format to plain text. An inherent challenge of this step is the loss of paragraph structure in
reports. Moreover, even if the structure could have been maintained, differentiating between
headers, bullet points, and coherent paragraphs in a report is not straightforward.
To address these issues, we employ a common text segmentation technique developed
by Choi (2000), the C99 algorithm. This method coalesces individual sentences into larger,
more meaningful segments that align more closely with coherent thoughts or ideas in the text.
Consequently, we use these segmented units, rather than individual sentences, as the unit of
analysis for our study.
Next, we implement a machine learning model to filter out boilerplate content from
reports. The data set for training consists of segments in reports produced by the top 20
brokers, with positive examples identified as the most frequently repeated segments and
negative examples as those least repeated. We fine-tune a BERT model to classify boilerplate
segments automatically, and the trained model demonstrates high accuracy. Table IA1 in the
Internet Appendix lists predicted boilerplate probabilities and boilerplate examples, sorted by
decile. We retain segments with a boilerplate probability of 0.22 (the sample median) or
lower.
13
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 16 ---
We then identify culture-related segments in reports through a two-step procedure.6
In step 1, we start with an exhaustive text search using two sets of keywords. The
initial set of keywords is based on the word set explicitly about corporate culture, identifying
a total of 5,541 relevant segments.7 We also employ a second, more flexible set of keywords,
which matches all segments containing the word “culture(s)” or “cultural,” excluding those
already identified to avoid duplication. This second search results in a larger set of 46,795
segments. Some segments, however, are in the biological or societal context. We apply
generative AI for word sense disambiguation (WSD) to filter out irrelevant segments. Table
IA2 Panel A in the Internet Appendix shows the prompt used. After filtering, this step results
in a total of 41,038 relevant segments.
In step 2, we fine-tune a BERT model to identify culture-related segments that lack
specific keywords. The construction of our training set involves using segments, identified in
step 1 as containing relevant keywords, as positive examples (culture = 1). Conversely, we
include randomly selected segments without those keywords as negative examples (culture =
0). This training set is used to fine-tune the model, which is then deployed across all
segments (excluding those identified in step 1). We sort segments by their predicted
probabilities of relating to culture, and focus on the top 5% segments with the highest
predicted probabilities. To improve the filtering, we use generative AI to further scrutinize
these segments and retain only segments that are explicitly about corporate or organizational
culture. Table IA2 Panel B in the Internet Appendix shows the prompt used. This step adds
6 Li et al. (2021) develop cross-validated measures of corporate culture by applying word embedding to earnings
conference call transcripts; their measures offer broad coverage of firms over time. In contrast, our paper aims to
provide insights into analysts’ views of cultural values in terms of their perceived causes and effects, which is a
much harder task than measuring culture. In pursuit of our goal, we emphasize accuracy in identifying culture-
related segments in analyst reports over coverage, using two word lists and a machine learning model as
discussed in this section.
7 We use the following phrases for exact matching: “corporate culture,” “company culture,” “company’s
culture,” “firm culture,” “firm’s culture,” “organizational culture,” “workplace culture,” “business culture,” and
“culture in the company.”
14
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 17 ---
51,434 segments. Our final data set comprises 92,472 culture-related segments in reports
(41,038 segments from step 1 + 51,434 segments from step 2).8
Figure 2 plots the intensity of culture-related segments in analyst reports over time
and by report section over the period 2000-2020. The horizontal axis indicates report year,
and the vertical axis indicates report section, binned into 20 equal sections from the start to
the end of a report. The color gradient depicts the intensity of culture-related segments,
computed as the number of these segments normalized by the number of reports in a year (we
multiply this variable by a hundred).
We make two observations. First, there is a shift in the location of culture-related
segments in reports. At the beginning of the sample period, these segments are generally
scattered throughout a report. In more recent years, they appear more concentrated in the first
half of a report. This shift suggests that, over time, analysts are more aware of the importance
of culture, and hence they position their culture-related analyses in the front end of their
reports. Second, there is a marked rise in the intensity of culture-related segments in reports
in recent years following a discernable dip during and in the aftermath of the Great Recession
(2008-2012); this dip could potentially be attributed to analysts’ heightened focus on
financial performance and cost-cutting in a period of economic uncertainty.
3.2. Cause-effect relation extraction using generative AI
In this section, we combine generative AI with chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting and
retrieval augmented generation (RAG) to perform RE from analyst reports.
CoT prompting is a reasoning methodology that aids generative AI in executing
complex tasks. It operates by instructing the model to perform step-by-step reasoning or
8 It is informative to compare the number of culture-related segments in reports with the number of segments
mentioning other value-relevant events or economic condition. For example, using the phrases “joint ventures,”
“joint venture,” or “JV,” we get 124,633 segments; using the phrases “strategic alliances,” or “strategic
alliance,” we get 7,578 segments; for M&A-related mentions, we get 1,072,022 segments; and for “inflation,”
we get 229,490 segments.
15
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 18 ---
problem-solving, mimicking the progressive nature of the human thought process. When
applying the CoT prompting, we break down the elaborate task of RE into smaller,
manageable steps. This simplification not only improves the performance of the model, but
also provides interpretability into the model’s problem-solving process, allowing for close
inspection of each stage of reasoning and offering insights into how the model reaches its
conclusions.
In the baseline case, when applying the CoT prompting, we direct the model to extract
cultural values along with their causes and effects from each segment. The model is then
asked to construct cause-effect relation triples that encapsulate the extracted information in a
standardized format. It is possible for a single segment to have multiple cause-effect relations
or none. Table 1 Panel A shows the CoT prompt used in our analysis.
In some cases, the segment available might be too concise, depriving the model of the
necessary context to extract a causal relation. In such cases, we turn to RAG, which
dynamically integrates external information from relevant segments into the problem-solving
process. Specifically, if the model outputs “I need more context” during the CoT prompting,
we perform a semantic search to retrieve the top five most relevant segments in the same
report, plus those segments that are immediately before or after the focal segment, that could
provide additional context for the analysis.9 Table 1 Panel B shows the prompt used. The
model is then provided with both the focal segment and the additional context retrieved via a
semantic search to implement RE. Should no causal relation be extracted even with the
additional context, the model will produce an empty output in the relevant field.
There are two main concerns when applying generative AI: look-ahead bias and
hallucination. Look-ahead bias refers to using future information not available at the time of
prediction. Our application focuses on extracting analysts’ views of corporate culture rather
9 When additional segments exceed the token limit of the model, we select those that are most similar to the
focal segment within the limit.
16
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 19 ---
than making out-of-sample predictions. Moreover, our regression analyses primarily use the
extracted cultural values based on information available at the time of a report’s publication.
In short, our approach and research design by construction mitigate look-ahead bias concerns.
Hallucination refers to generated text that is unfaithful or ignores source material (Maynez,
Narayan, Bohnet, and McDonald 2020). A key strategy to mitigate hallucination is to
improve the alignment between the input and the generated output (Ji et al. 2023). Our
approach ensures that the input segments align closely with what the prompt asks for because
the segments either contain explicit culture-related keywords or are selected through a multi-
stage filtering process. Moreover, our CoT prompting guides generative AI to strictly reason
within a report’s content in a step-by-step manner. Finally, we also instruct generative AI to
output “N/A” if pertinent information is absent, further reducing hallucination risk. Human
annotation in Section 3.4 will verify the model’s adherence to the context and knowledge
present in reports.
In summary, combining generative AI with CoT prompting and RAG allows us to
leverage the strengths of both approaches – structured problem-solving and dynamic
contextual integration – to effectively extract cause-effect relations involving corporate
culture from analyst reports.
3.3. Canonicalization of extracted information
After extracting cultural values from analyst reports using generative AI, we conduct
canonicalization, a process that converts information with multiple representations/forms into
a standard or canonical format. The initial output from the model has more than 15,100
variations of phrases referring to corporate culture, which we consolidate in two stages.
In the first stage, whenever possible, we manually examine and categorize 881
culture-related phrases that show up ten or more times in reports into broad cultural values
17
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 20 ---
guided by prior work listed in Table IA3 in the Internet Appendix.10 Individually, we
categorize those phrases. When any disagreement arises, we turn to the original reports to
reach a consensus. We end up with ten cultural values defined as follows:
• Adaptability: Cultures emphasizing cultural shifts, adaptations, transformations, or
resistance to change. For example, “cultural change,” “cultural transformation,”
“culture reset,” and “insular culture.”
• Customer-oriented: Cultures prioritizing sales or customer relations. For example,
“sales culture,” “customer-centric,” and “brand-focused.”
• Innovation: Cultures emphasizing innovation, growth, and entrepreneurship. For
example, “entrepreneurial,” “innovation,” “growth-oriented,” and “technology-
driven.”
• Integrity: Cultures valuing ethical behavior, fair practices, and community
relationships. For example, “enlightened hospitality,” “ESG-focused,” “fair business
practices,” and “blame culture.”
• Operations-oriented: Cultures underscoring efficiency, productivity, and cost
control. For example, “decentralized,” “efficiency-focused,” and “cost-conscious.”
• People-oriented: Cultures centering on employee well-being, diversity, inclusion,
empowerment, and talent growth. For example, “employee-centric,” “diverse and
inclusive,” and “talent-focused.”
• Results-oriented: Cultures focusing on performance, competitiveness, and results.
For example, “competitive,” “performance-driven,” and “pay-for-performance.”
• Risk control: Cultures stressing risk management, credit, and financial prudence. For
example, “conservative credit culture,” “risk-averse,” and “culture of compliance.”
• Teamwork: Cultures highlighting collaboration, integration, and team-orientation.
For example, “collaborative,” “integration,” “cultural fit,” and “partnership-oriented.”
• Miscellaneous: This category contains various unspecific and less-frequently
occurring cultural values, or those that do not easily fit into the above categories. For
example, “positive culture” and “distinct culture.”
10 We are mindful that cultural values discussed by analysts in their reports might differ from those espoused by
firms or their management, or experienced by employees, as examined in prior work. Given analysts’ role as an
information intermediary, assessing whether their views do differ is an important research question this paper
addresses.
18
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 21 ---
In the second stage, we employ generative AI to categorize culture-related phrases
that show up fewer than ten times in reports. Table 1 Panel C shows the prompt used. To
ensure that the examples provided in the prompt are relevant to the phrase being analyzed, we
use a dynamic approach based on a nearest-neighbor criterion. Specifically, we embed each
phrase using a model based on the BERT architecture, then compute the cosine similarity
between a focal phrase (to be categorized) and each of the 881 phrases that we have manually
categorized. Based on the cosine similarity score, we supply the most similar (already
categorized) phrase and its corresponding categorized cultural value to the focal phrase as an
example in the prompt.
We employ similar techniques to categorize the causes or effects of each cultural
value. The process again starts with the use of a BERT-based model to embed all identified
causes and effects into fixed-size vectors. We then cluster these vectors into 50 groups using
agglomerative hierarchical clustering. The clusters provide an initial understanding of the
common patterns and relationships among the wide array of causes/effects. After clustering,
we manually inspect the clusters and combine them into major categories of causes and
effects. Each major category is supported by five to ten human-annotated examples. After the
major categories are established, we employ generative AI to classify the extracted causes
and effects into those major categories with dynamically generated examples in the prompt.
Table 1 Panel D shows the prompt used. Table IA4 in the Internet Appendix provides some
representative examples of the extracted cultural values and their causes and effects.
Finally, we conduct canonicalization of numerous variations of cause-effect relation
triples. Consider an example (‘aggressive sales culture,’ ‘resulted in,’ ‘massive scandal’).
The canonicalization process first assigns one “end” of the triple to one of the cultural values
discussed above using the mapping created in the prior step. In this case, the phrase
“aggressive sales culture” is assigned to the cultural value “Customer-oriented.” We then use
19
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 22 ---
generative AI to classify the nature of the relationship into “->”, “<-” or “<->” wherein the
arrow indicates the direction of the cause or effect. Table 1 Panel E shows the prompt used in
the analysis. For example, the phrase “provides opportunity for” is canonicalized as ->,
“threatened by” as <-, and “align with” as <->. Panel F shows the prompt to canonicalize
reasons for analysts to discuss culture.
A more detailed description of our generative AI-based method is provided in the
Internet Appendix. Table IA5 in the Internet Appendix provides examples of snippets in
culture-related segments, and of extracted cultural values and their respective causes and
effects.
3.4. Model performance
In this section, we evaluate the performance of three generative AI models. Two of
these models belong to the ChatGPT model series developed by OpenAI: GPT-4-1106-
preview (hereafter referred to as GPT-4) and GPT-3.5-turbo-1106 (referred to as GPT-3.5).
The third model belongs to Google’s Vertex AI PaLM 2 model series, specifically text-bison-
001 (referred to as PaLM).11 Our evaluation involves manually annotating cultural values,
causes, effects (and thereby cause-effect relations), and tones in 200 randomly selected
culture-related segments, and comparing them with the relations and tones extracted by
generative AI models. Table 2 presents the model performance results using accuracy,
precision, recall, and F1 scores.
In terms of accuracy, GPT-4 achieves 94.5%, 91.5%, 94.0%, and 80.5% for cultural
values, causes, effects, and cause-effect relations, respectively. GPT-3.5 achieves 91.0%,
86.5%, 88.5%, and 71.0%, respectively. PaLM achieves 81.5%, 80.0%, 85.5%, and 67.0%,
respectively. The accuracy for cause-effect relations is lower than that for other tasks because
11 To ensure reproducibility of our findings, we set temperature to 0 and a deterministic random seed (when
applicable) in all API calls. We keep other hyperparameters at their default values.
20
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 23 ---
a false extraction of any of the three elements (cultural values, causes, and effects) will be
considered a false case (false positive/negative). We find similar results using precision,
recall, and F1.
In terms of tones in culture-related segments, we show that GPT-4 achieves an
accuracy of 93.0%, outperforming GPT-3.5 and PaLM, which achieve an accuracy of 91.5%
and 88.5%, respectively. As a comparison, we also examine the performance of FinBERT
developed by Huang, Wang, and Yang (2023) to capture tones in culture-related segments.
We find that FinBERT only achieves an accuracy of 72.5%, primarily because it captures the
overall tone of a segment, whereas generative AI (like humans) is capable of detecting the
tone specific to the culture-related text within a segment. Our findings echo Lopez-Lira and
Tang’s (2023) conclusion that generative AI with its reasoning capabilities outperforms other
machine learning models in capturing tones.
In summary, we find all three models exhibit good model performance when
extracting cultural values, causes, effects, cause-effect relations, and tones in textual data.
GPT-4 has a slight edge compared to GPT-3.5 and PaLM. However, the disparity in
performance among these models is relatively small, while GPT-4 operates at a significantly
slower speed and higher cost than GPT-3.5. In the remainder of this paper, we employ GPT-
3.5 as our primary AI model to conduct analyses.
4. Revealing Analysts’ Views of Corporate Culture from Reports
4.1. Overview of analysts’ views of corporate culture
Table 3 provides the frequency count and share of culture-related segments relating to
individual cultural value, cause, and effect in descending order. According to analysts, the top
three cultural values are innovation (16.9%), adaptability (15.9%), and customer-oriented
culture (11.5%), and the bottom three cultural values are integrity (3.7%), teamwork (5.3%),
21
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 24 ---
and people-oriented (6.5%). The top three drivers of cultural changes are business strategy
(18.4%), management team (12.4%), and strategic transformation (8.8%), and the bottom
three drivers are the COVID-19 pandemic (0.1%), workplace safety (1.0%), and regulatory
issues (1.3%). The top three business outcomes that culture shapes are market share and
growth (16.2%), profitability (13.6%), and employee satisfaction (8.4%), and the bottom
three outcomes are misconduct (0.5%), internal conflicts (1.0%), and diversity, equity, and
inclusion (1.3%).
We compare our findings with the survey data of 1,348 North American executives
from mostly private firms (about half of them are family firms) reported by Graham et al.
(2022a). According to the survey, executives view the following words/phrases as best
describing the current culture at their firms: results-oriented (48%), community (39%), and
collaboration (32%). When executives were given a list of terms related to business ethics
(e.g., compliance), innovation (e.g., creativity), and productivity (e.g., profitability), and were
asked to what extent their firms’ cultures were affected by these terms, the top three factors
influencing a firm’s current culture as chosen by the executives were current CEO (55%),
market place (35%), and owners (32%). Clearly, analysts’ views of corporate culture are
different from what we learn about culture based on surveys of executives. Huang et al.
(2018) compare analyst reports and earnings calls and find that about a third of the reports
discuss (new) topics not mentioned in calls. Our comparison of analysts’ and executives’
views of corporate culture is consistent with their findings.
Figure IA1 in the Internet Appendix provides an overview of the temporal trends in
culture-related segments in analyst reports. In Panel A, we show a clear dip in such coverage
around the Financial Crisis of 2008-2010. In Panel B, we separate culture-related segments
by cultural value. We note that, over time, adaptability, innovation, and people-oriented
(customer-oriented and results-oriented) values are gaining (losing) importance.
22
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 25 ---
Figure IA2 provides an overview of the Fama-French 12 industry distributions of
culture-related segments in analyst reports. In Panel A, we show that finance, shops (i.e.,
wholesale and retail), and business equipment are the three industries whose analysts pay the
most attention to corporate culture, whereas utilities, telecom, and consumer durables are the
three industries whose analysts pay the least attention. Consistent with our intuition, we show
that analysts tend to focus on customer-oriented culture in the wholesale and retail industry,
and risk control culture in the utilities and finance industries.
Figure IA3 provides a breakdown of culture-related segments by cultural value and
tone. We show that, in general, analysts are less likely to use negative tones when analyzing
culture. Among all cultural values, analysts are slightly more negative when writing about
risk control, adaptability, and integrity.
4.2. The cause-effect knowledge graph
Importantly, our generative AI-fueled method allows us to identify the events, people,
and/or systems that significantly influence a specific cultural value, and to determine which
cultural values are most impactful for various business outcomes. Figure 3 plots the cause-
effect knowledge graph capturing analysts’ views of corporate culture.
The graph is divided into three columns of entities: 1) the left column lists the
seventeen drivers of culture grouped by events, people, and systems suggested by Guiso,
Sapienza, and Zingales (2015), Graham et al. (2022a, 2022b), and Grennan and Li (2023)
(omitting the miscellaneous category); 2) the center column lists the nine cultural values
(omitting the miscellaneous category); and 3) the right column lists the sixteen effects of
culture (omitting the miscellaneous category). The height of each entity (a cultural value, a
driver, or an effect) denotes the number of relevant segments, thereby providing an intuitive
visual representation of each entity’s prominence. The width of each link denotes the number
23
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 26 ---
of segments mentioning a particular cause or effect relation. For an uncluttered depiction, we
only retain the top two most frequent links for each entity in Figure 3.
Focusing on the links coming out of the cause column (on the left side of Figure 3),
analysts identify that business strategy is one of the top two influencing factors for a large
number of cultural values – customer-oriented, operations-oriented, innovation, results-
oriented, adaptability, integrity, and risk control, and management team for teamwork,
innovation, results-oriented, adaptability, integrity, risk control, and people-oriented values.
In contrast, strategic transformation is one of the top two influencing factors for operations-
oriented and adaptability. Focusing on the links coming into the value column (in the middle
of Figure 3), analysts identify that M&As (an event) and management team (people) are the
top two factors shaping the cultural value of teamwork, and business strategy (a system) and
management team (people) are the top two factors shaping the cultural value of integrity.
Focusing on the links coming out of the value column (in the middle of Figure 3), analysts
identify the cultural values of innovation and adaptability as having an impact on almost all
aspects of business operations, ranging from market share and growth to corporate
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices, while other values such as customer-
oriented, operation-oriented, or people-oriented have less impact. For example, the cultural
value of customer-oriented is one of the top two values shaping business outcomes, including
customer satisfaction and market share and growth, and people-oriented is one of the top two
values shaping employee satisfaction and diversity, equity, and inclusion. Focusing on the
links coming into the effect column (on the right side of Figure 3), analysts identify
customer-oriented and innovation as the top two values shaping market share and growth, and
operations-oriented and results-oriented as the top two values shaping profitability. Notably,
the above discussions are merely the proverbial tip of the iceberg, with many additional
granular insights into the complex relations among the nine cultural values, seventeen causes,
24
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 27 ---
and sixteen effects available from these links. To the best of our knowledge, such insights are
wholly absent from the existing literature on corporate culture.
In the effect column, we utilize a color-coding scheme to represent tones in culture-
related segments, with darker shades signifying more negative tones. We find that innovation,
customer satisfaction, and employee satisfaction are viewed positively, whereas misconduct,
internal conflicts, and risk management are viewed negatively in analysts’ analyses of
business outcomes relating to culture. In our sample, 66.7% of analysts have positive tones
when discussing culture. By comparison, Graham et al. (2022a) note that 63% of the
surveyed executives express positive sentiments when discussing culture.
Lastly, we ask the model to list reasons for analysts’ discussing culture and find that
the top three reasons are: 1) financial performance, valuation, and competitive advantage; 2)
strategic alignment and execution; and 3) human capital management.
Overall, Figure 3 provides a comprehensive visualization of analysts’ views of
corporate culture spanning different cultural values, their causes, and their effects, which
differs from corporate insiders’ perceptions of cultural values and their roles in business
outcomes (see, for example, Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015; Grennan 2019; Graham et
al. 2022a, 2022b). Knowledge gained from revealing analysts’ views of culture can serve as
fact-checking of research ideas and provide a roadmap for empirical research on culture.
5. Understanding Analysts’ Views of Corporate Culture
Unlike values or quantities gleaned from financial statements, the notion of corporate
culture is somewhat nebulous and thus raises a number of questions regarding our research
premise: Do sell-side equity analysts possess value-relevant insights into corporate culture?
Moreover, is it possible that analysts are simply reiterating management’s narratives in
earnings conference calls, with little originality in their discussions of culture? We address
25
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 28 ---
these concerns in this section. We also conduct regression analysis to gain a better
understanding of the determinants of analysts’ featuring culture in their reports.
5.1. Sample formation and overview
We download from Thomson One’s Investext 2,434,782 reports covering S&P 1500
constituent firms over the period 2000-2020. We obtain report date, gvkey, lead analyst
name (including last name and first name initial), and broker name from the meta file.
Section B of the Internet Appendix describes how we match analyst name in a report to
analyst ID in the Institutional Brokers Estimates System (I/B/E/S) database, in order to
construct analyst characteristic variables. Table 4 lists the steps taken and filters applied to
form our main firm sample, comprising 28,860 firm-year observations representing 2,569
unique firms. Our firm-analyst-year sample comprises 142,868 observations representing
2,484 firms covered by 4,043 analysts.
Table 5 provides the summary statistics for the different samples used in our analyses.
All continuous variables are winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentiles, and the dollar values
are in 2020 dollars. Variable definitions are provided in the Appendix. Panel A presents the
summary statistics for the firm-year sample and firm-analyst-year sample. At the firm-year
level, our measure of the frequency of analysts’ discussions of culture, Culture discussion,
has a mean of 0.425, suggesting that there is at least one analyst discussing culture in about
40 percent of firm-year observations. The average number of cultural values discussed is
slightly over two. On average, analysts have a positive tone when discussing culture; the
sample average tone is 0.676 (1 for positive tone, 0 for neutral, and -1 for negative tone).
Among the nine cultural values, innovation and adaptability are the most frequently
mentioned, whereas integrity and teamwork are the two least frequently mentioned, based on
analyst reports. At the firm-analyst-year level, we show that about a tenth of firm-analyst-
year observations discuss culture. Table IA6 in the Internet Appendix presents the Pearson
26
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 29 ---
correlation matrices of the firm-year sample and the firm-analyst-year sample. Examination
of the correlation matrices suggests that multicollinearity is unlikely to be an issue.
5.2. Do analysts have insights into corporate culture?
To address the concern that analysts do not understand intangibles such as corporate
culture, we note that analysts gain in-depth knowledge of the firms they follow through both
formal and informal channels, including attending earnings conference calls, conducting site
visits, and meeting with top and divisional managers (Soltes 2014; Brown et al. 2015). All of
the above provide a window into an organization’s culture. Moreover, prior work finds that
analysts possess value-relevant non-financial information about the companies they cover
(Previts et al. 1994; Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014; Brown et al. 2015; Bellstam, Bhagat, and
Cookson 2021); and corporate culture is part of firms’ intangible assets. We further note that
the nine cultural values featured in analyst reports are typically not exact copies of cultural
values as viewed on corporate websites (Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015), discussed in
calls (Li et al. 2021), experienced by employees (Grennan 2019), or mentioned by executives
in surveys and interviews (Graham et al. 2022a, 2022b), which suggests, as noted above, that
analysts possess unique insights into corporate culture (with the caveat that analysts’
discussions of these cultural values in their reports may nonetheless occasionally repeat
related talking points from earnings calls) (see Table IA3 in the Internet Appendix for a
comparison). We address this concern by comparing analysts’ views in a sample of firm-year
observations that hold calls with those in a sample of firm-year observations that do not hold
calls; we further compare analysts’ views in a sample of firm-year observations in which
executives discuss corporate culture in greater depth during calls with those in a sample of
firm-year observations in which they do not do so. Table 6 presents the results.
In Panel A, we find no significant difference in analysts’ views between the two
samples across a number of summary measures and individual cultural values. In a number of
27
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 30 ---
cases in which views differ, analysts tend to pay significantly more attention to customer-
oriented, results-oriented, and risk control cultures in firms that do not hold calls than
analysts covering firms that do hold calls, suggesting that analysts are not simply repeating
what they have heard in calls. In Panel B, we show that even for the sample of firm-year
observations in which executives discuss the least about culture in calls, analysts who follow
those firms still discuss more about risk control culture and have similar amounts of
discussion of operations-oriented and results-oriented cultures as those in which executives
talk more about culture.
In summary, our evidence suggests that analysts possess meaningful insights about
corporate culture.
5.3. Firm characteristics and analysts’ discussing corporate culture
To examine whether and how firm characteristics are related to the likelihood of
analysts’ research on culture in their reports, we employ the following regression
specification at the firm-year level:
𝑌 = 𝛼 +𝛽 ×𝐹𝑖𝑟𝑚 𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑠 +𝐼𝑛𝑑 𝐹𝐸 +𝑌𝑒𝑎𝑟 𝐹𝐸 +𝜀 , (1)
!,# !,#$% !,#
where the dependent variables 𝑌 are: whether analysts discuss culture (or not), the number
!,#
of cultural values discussed, and their tones when discussing culture. Firm characteristics
largely follow prior work (Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015; Li et al. 2021; Li, Chen, and
Shen 2024). We include industry fixed effects to control for the effect of time-invariant
industry factors on analysts’ discussions of culture, and year fixed effects to control for
changing trends in analysts’ awareness of culture.
Table 7 Panel A presents the results when the dependent variable is whether a firm’s
analysts discuss culture or not. Columns (1)-(2) present the regression results including the
basic set of firm-level controls. We find that firm size, sales growth, ROA, the number of
management turnover cases, and the number of M&A deals are positively and significantly,
28
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 31 ---
whereas firm age, leverage, tangibility, earnings volatility, ownership by large shareholders
(using 5% as the shareholding cutoff), and board independence are negatively and
significantly, associated with the likelihood of analysts’ discussing culture in their reports. In
columns (3)-(4), we further control executives’ and employees’ discussions of culture. We
note that both management discussing culture in calls and the number of employees rating
culture and values on Glassdoor are positively and significantly associated with the likelihood
of analysts’ discussing culture in their reports.
Limiting to a subsample of firm-year observations with culture-related segments in
analyst reports, we examine the determinants of analysts’ discussing different values and
their respective tones. Panel B presents the results. In columns (1)-(2), we show that firm
size, sales growth, ROA, the number of management turnover cases, and the number of M&A
deals are positively and significantly, whereas leverage and ownership by large shareholders
are negatively and significantly, associated with the number of values discussed in analyst
reports. In columns (3)-(4), we show positive and significant associations between both
management discussing culture in calls and the number of employees rating culture and
values on Glassdoor, and the number of values discussed by analysts. In terms of tones in
analysts’ discussions of culture in columns (5)-(8), we show that firm size, earnings volatility,
the number of management turnover cases, and management discussing culture in calls are
negatively and significantly, whereas ROA and tangibility are positively and significantly,
associated with analysts’ tones. Our findings on the negative influences of large shareholders
and the positive influences of key corporate events (such as management turnover and
M&As) are largely consistent with prior literature (e.g., Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015;
Li et al. 2021). Moreover, our findings as noted above on the positive associations between
management’s, employees’, and analysts’ discussing corporate culture, and on the negative
association between management’s discussion of culture in calls and analysts’ tones about
29
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 32 ---
culture in their reports are new, suggesting that analysts do have unique insights into
corporate culture in their research.
5.4. Analyst characteristics and their discussing corporate culture
To examine what analyst characteristics are associated with the likelihood of their
writing about culture in reports, we employ the following regression specification at the firm-
analyst-year level:
𝑌 = 𝛼 +𝛽 ×𝐴𝑛𝑎𝑙𝑦𝑠𝑡 𝑐ℎ𝑎𝑟𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑒𝑟𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑖𝑐𝑠 +𝐹𝑖𝑟𝑚×𝑌𝑒𝑎𝑟 𝐹𝐸 +𝐵𝑟𝑜𝑘𝑒𝑟 𝐹𝐸 +𝜀 ,
!,&,# &,#$% !,&,#
(2)
where the dependent variables 𝑌 are: whether an analyst discusses culture (or not), the
!,&,#
number of cultural values discussed, and her tone in discussing culture. Our analyst
characteristics largely follow prior literature (e.g., Clement and Tse 2005). In addition to
analyst characteristics, we include firm ´ year and/or broker fixed effects to control for time-
varying unobservable firm and/or broker characteristics that may affect analysts’ coverage
decisions and/or their decisions to discuss culture in reports. Table 7 Panel C presents the
regression results.
Columns (1) and (4) present the regression results when the dependent variable is
whether an analyst discusses culture or not. We show that analysts who are women; who have
more general and firm-specific experiences; and who are affiliated with large brokers are
each more likely to discuss corporate culture. Columns (2) and (5) present the regression
results when the dependent variable is the number of values discussed by an analyst. We
show that analysts with longer forecast horizons, more general experience, and more industry
coverage are positively and significantly with the number of values discussed in their reports.
Columns (3) and (6) present the regression results when the dependent variable is the tone of
analysts’ discussion of culture. We show little explanatory power from analyst characteristics
considered.
30
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 33 ---
We conclude that the significant associations between certain analyst characteristics –
gender, experience, scope of coverage, and broker prestige – and their coverage of culture
help assuage concerns about analysts’ indifference to or lack of insights into corporate
culture.
In summary, our analyses thus far suggest that generative AI models have the
potential to reveal new insights into corporate culture from the vantage points of sell-side
equity analysts, and that those insights differ from corporate insiders’ views of culture. We
next answer our final research question: What is the relationship between corporate culture
and price formation?
6. Analysts’ Views of Culture and Stock Price Implications
Prior studies show that analysts’ fundamental research contributes to stock price
formation (see, for example, Womack 1996; Brav and Lehavy 2003; Loh and Stulz 2011;
Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014; Kecskés, Michaely, and Womack 2017). In this section, we
examine whether and how analysts’ views of culture impact price formation. The analysis is
at the report level. Section C of the Internet Appendix describes how we match reports from
Investext in our sample to the I/B/E/S forecast data.
6.1. Analysts’ views of corporate culture and their research output
To examine the relationship between analysts’ views of culture and their research
output, we focus on stock recommendations and target prices because both measures capture
a firm’s long-term prospects (e.g., Brav and Lehavy 2003; Loh and Stulz 2011), which aligns
well with the role of corporate culture in long-term value creation (e.g., Guiso, Sapienza, and
Zingales 2015; Li, Liu, Mai, and Zhang 2021). Moreover, a strong culture could over time
boost a firm’s cash flows and/or lower its discount rate; either or both outcomes would be
reflected in stock recommendations and target prices. Given the importance of sentiment in
31
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 34 ---
textual data (see, for example, Antweiler and Frank 2004; Tetlock 2007; Loughran and
McDonald 2011; Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014), the key variable of interest is ChatGPT’s
classification of analysts’ tones in culture-related segments, Tone. We also examine tones at
more granular levels such as cultural value-specific tones (e.g., Adaptability tone) as well as
control for tones in the remainder of a report, Non-culture tone. Table 8 Panel A presents the
summary statistics for the key variables. We note that they are largely consistent with prior
literature (e.g., Bradshaw, Brown, and Huang 2013; Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014; Kecskés,
Michaely, and Womack 2017). Panels B-D present the regression results. We include firm ´
year and analyst fixed effects to control for time-varying unobservable firm characteristics
that may affect analysts’ coverage decisions and analyst innate skill or preferences relating to
their discussions of corporate culture, respectively.
In Panel B, we show that Tone is positively and significantly associated with stock
recommendations and target prices, suggesting that analysts’ sentiments on culture play a
significant role in their stock recommendations and target price forecasts. In terms of
economic significance, a change in Tone from negative to neutral (or from neutral to positive)
is associated with a 2.7 percentage point-increase in the (linear) probability of analysts
upgrading their recommendations and a 1.4 percentage point-increase in target price forecast
relative to the mean.12 For comparison, a change in Non-culture Tone from negative to
neutral (or from neutral to positive) is associated with a 7.8 percentage point-increase in the
(linear) probability of analysts upgrading their recommendations and a 5.8 percentage point-
increase in target price forecast relative to the mean.13 Given that the non-culture segments
12 The 2.7 percentage point-increase is calculated from 1 × 0.109 × 100/4 where the denominator 4 is the range
of stock recommendation from -2 to 2, and the 1.4 percentage point-increase is calculated from 1 × 1.653 ×
100/118.141 where the denominator 118.141 is the sample average target price (%).
13 The 7.8 percentage point-increase is calculated from 1 × 0.312 × 100/4, and the 5.8 percentage point-increase
is calculated from 1 × 6.882 × 100/118.141.
32
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 35 ---
regarding a firm’s financial performance are more directly related to stock recommendations
and target price forecasts, the effect of culture-related Tone is noteworthy.
In Panel C, we further break down analysts’ views into their respective views on each
of the ten cultural values (including the miscellaneous category), and examine whether and
how these tone variables are associated with analysts’ recommendations and target price
forecasts. We show that all cultural value-related tone variables are positively and
significantly associated with stock recommendations and target prices. In terms of economic
importance, the top three drivers of stock recommendations are Adaptability tone, Innovation
tone, and Miscellaneous tone, and the top three drivers of target price forecasts are Innovation
tone, Adaptability tone, and Teamwork tone.
In Panel D, we employ a subsample of reports associated with recommendation
(target price) revisions.14 We show that there is a negative and significant association
between Tone and recommendation downgrades (target price downward revisions),
suggesting that analysts do take into account their views of culture when making revisions.
6.2. The information content of analysts’ views of corporate culture
To investigate the information content of analysts’ views of corporate culture in
reports, we employ an event study relating three-day cumulative abnormal returns (CAR)
around the report date, to measures of analysts’ views of culture controlling quantitative and
qualitative summary measures of a report, and analyst and firm characteristics (Huang, Zang,
and Zheng 2014; Huang et al. 2018).15 Table 9 presents the regression results.
14 Following Huang, Zang, and Zheng (2014), a report is considered a revision if the report date is within the
five-day window centered around the I/B/E/S recommendation (target price) announcement date when an
analyst revises her recommendation (target price forecast). All other reports are considered reiteration reports.
15 For this analysis, we remove 892,467 reports due to companies with multiple reports, 12,074 reports due to
companies issuing earnings announcements, and 5,058 reports due to companies issuing earnings guidance, in
the CAR window.
33
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 36 ---
We show that Tone is positively and significantly associated with CAR[-1,+1],
suggesting that culture discussions in a report provide information beyond that provided by
its quantitative and qualitative measures. In terms of economic significance, a change in Tone
from negative to neutral (or from neutral to positive) results in an additional three-day
abnormal return of 30.6 basis points around the report date, corresponding to an $88.4 million
increase in market value for an average firm in the sample.16 For comparison, a change in
Non-culture tone from negative to neutral (or from neutral to positive) results in an additional
three-day abnormal return of 113.6 basis points, corresponding to a $328.3 million increase in
market value for an average firm in the sample.17 It is worth noting that the effect
documented above is the direct information effect of analysts’ views of culture in reports, and
that there are also indirect effects via stock recommendation and target price revisions shown
in Table 8.
We conclude that analysts incorporate their views of corporate culture in their
research output, and that investors significantly react to report text on culture.
7. Conclusions
Our study is among the first in finance, accounting, and economics to apply
generative AI models as reasoning agents on analyst reports to gain insights into analysts’
views of corporate culture.
We employ generative AI (ChatGPT) to analyze 2.4 million analyst reports between
2000 and 2020. Generative AI organizes analysts’ views into a knowledge graph that links
different cultural values to their perceived causes and effects. In terms of influencing factors
16 The 30.6 basis points increase is calculated from 1 × 0.306 ×100, and the $88.4 million increase in market
value of equity is calculated from 0.306% × $28.9 billion where $28.9 billion is the sample average market
capitalization.
17 The 113.6 basis points increase is calculated from 1 × 1.136 × 100, and the $328.3 million increase in market
value of equity is calculated from 1.136% × $28.9 billion.
34
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 37 ---
for corporate culture, analysts identify business strategy as a key factor for a large number of
cultural values – customer-oriented, operations-oriented, innovation, results-oriented,
adaptability, integrity, and risk control; and management team for teamwork, innovation,
results-oriented, adaptability, integrity, risk control, and people-oriented values. In terms of
business outcomes shaped by corporate culture, analysts identify innovation and adaptability
as affecting almost all aspects of business operations, ranging from market share and growth
to corporate ESG practices, while other values such as customer-oriented, operation-oriented,
or people-oriented have less impact on business outcomes. We further provide evidence that
analysts’ views of culture are distinct from values presented on corporate websites, and/or
from the views of executives and employees.
Finally, we show that analysts’ views of corporate culture are reflected in their stock
recommendations and target price forecasts as well as impact price reactions to the release of
their reports. We conclude that analysts’ research on corporate culture offers new insights
into its causes and effects, and that we are closer to establishing the culture-firm value link.
Our paper highlights the tremendous potential of generative AI in extracting cause-
effect relations, and offers a roadmap for applying generative AI to finance and accounting
research.
35
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 38 ---
Appendix
Variable definitions
All continuous variables are winsorized at the 1st and 99th percentiles. All dollar values are in 2020 dollars.
Variable Definition
Firm-year level
Culture discussion An indicator variable that takes the value of one if corporate culture is discussed in
analyst reports in a year, and zero otherwise.
Number of segments Number of culture-related segments in analyst reports in a year.
Number of reports Number of analyst reports in which corporate culture is discussed in a year.
Number of values Number of corporate cultural values discussed in analyst reports in a year.
Tone The average tone of culture-related segments in analyst reports in a year. ChatGPT
classifies each segment as negative (-1), neutral (0), or positive (1).
Total assets Book value of total assets (in billions of dollars).
Firm size Natural logarithm of total assets.
Firm age Number of years since a firm first appears in Compustat.
Sales growth One year sales changes divided by last year sales.
ROA Operating income before interest and taxes divided by total assets.
Leverage Book value of debt divided by total assets.
Tangibility Net property, plant, and equipment divided by total assets.
ROA volatility Standard deviation of annual ROA, calculated over last three years, multiplied by
one hundred.
Large institutional The fraction of shares outstanding held by institutional investors with at least 5% of
ownership ownership of a firm. Missing values are assigned zero.
Board independence The share of independent directors on a board.
CEO duality An indicator variable that takes the value of one if the CEO is also Chairman of the
Board, and zero otherwise.
Number of key people Number of top executive and board member changes in a year. The data is from
changes Capital IQ Key Developments database.
Number of M&As Number of announcements related to mergers and acquisitions in a year. The data is
from Capital IQ Key Developments database.
Corporate culture The sum of five cultural values (innovation, integrity, quality, respect, and
teamwork), extracted from earnings conference calls in a year, multiplied by 100.
The data is from Li et al. (2021).
Employee culture rating The average of employee ratings of culture & values (1-5) from all (i.e., current and
former) employees in a year. The data is from Glassdoor.
Number of employee The number of all (i.e., current and former) employees providing culture & values
reviews ratings in a year. The data is from Glassdoor.
Adaptability An indicator variable that takes the value of one if adaptability culture is discussed
in analyst reports in a year, and zero otherwise. Other cultural value-specific
indicators (e.g., customer-oriented) are defined analogously.
Firm-analyst-year level
Culture discussion An indicator variable that takes the value of one if corporate culture is discussed by
an analyst in her reports in a firm-year, and zero otherwise.
Number of values Number of corporate cultural values discussed by an ana

--- PAGE 39 ---
Forecast horizon The average of forecast horizons (in terms of the number of years based on FPI in
I/B/E/S) that an analyst employs when making forecasts in a firm-year.
General experience The number of years for which an analyst makes at least one forecast of any firm.
Firm experience The number of years for which an analyst makes at least one forecast of a given
firm.
Number of industries Number of two-digit SIC industries in which an analyst makes at least one forecast
followed of any firm in that industry.
Number of firms followed Number of firms for which an analyst makes at least one forecast.
Forecast frequency Number of forecasts that an analyst makes of a given firm.
Broker size Natural logarithm of number of analysts making at least one forecast at a given
broker.
Report-level
Recommendation Stock recommendation in a report using a five-tier rating system where 2 represents
“strong buy,” 1 represents “buy,” 0 represents “hold,” -1 represents “underperform,”
and -2 represents “sell.”
Recommendation down An indicator variable that takes the value of one if stock recommendation in a report
is revised downward compared to the last recommendation in I/B/E/S issued by the
same analyst for the same firm, and zero if it is revised upward. To identify a
revision, following Huang, Zang, and Zheng (2014, Figure 2), we first match a
report to its corresponding I/B/E/S recommendation. A recommendation is
considered valid during the period from the I/B/E/S announcement date until the
I/B/E/S review date (i.e., when I/B/E/S confirms this recommendation is accurate).
We classify a recommendation as revised if the report date is within the window
from two days before to two days after the I/B/E/S announcement date, and a
recommendation as reiterated if the report date is within the window from two days
after the I/B/E/S announcement date to two days after the I/B/E/S review date.
Target price Target price in a report divided by the stock price 50 days before the report date (in
percentage points), following Huang, Zang, and Zheng (2014).
Target price down An indicator variable that takes the value of one if target price in a report is revised
downward compared to the last target price in I/B/E/S issued by the same analyst for
the same firm, and zero if it is revised upward. To identify a revision, following
Huang, Zang, and Zheng (2014, Figure 2), we first match a report to its
corresponding I/B/E/S target price. A target price is considered valid during the
period from the I/B/E/S announcement date until the I/B/E/S review date (i.e., when
I/B/E/S confirms this estimate is accurate). We classify a target price as revised if
the report date is within the window from two days before to two days after the
I/B/E/S announcement date, and a recommendation as reiterated if the report date is
within the window from two days after the I/B/E/S announcement date to two days
after the I/B/E/S review date.
Tone The average tone of culture-related segments in a repo

--- PAGE 40 ---
Target price revision Target price in a report minus the last target price in I/B/E/S issued by the same
analyst for the same firm, divided by the stock price 50 days before the report date.
Prior CAR Cumulative ten-day abnormal return (in percentage points) ending two trading days
before the report date based on a market model in which the market portfolio is the
CRSP value-weighted market index.
38
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 41 ---
References
Ahern, Kenneth R., Daniele Daminelli, and Cesare Fracassi, 2015, Lost in translation? The
effect of cultural values on mergers around the world, Journal of Financial Economics
117, 165–189.
Antweiler, Werner, and Murray Z. Frank, 2004, Is all that talk just noise? The information
content of internet stock message boards, Journal of Finance 59, 1259–1294.
Asquith, Paul, Michael B. Mikhail, and Andrea S. Au, 2005, Information content of equity
analyst reports, Journal of Financial Economics 75, 245–282.
Au, Shiu-Yik, Ming Dong, and Andreanne Tremblay, 2021, Employee flexibility, exogenous
risk, and firm value, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 56, 853–884.
Babina, Tania, Anastassia Fedyk, Alex He, and James Hodson, 2024, Artificial intelligence,
firm growth, and product innovation, Journal of Financial Economics in press.
Bai, John Jianqiu, Nicole M. Boyson, Yi Cao, Miao Liu, and Chi Wan, 2023, Executives vs.
chatbots: Unmasking insights through human-AI differences in earnings conference Q&A,
Northeastern University working paper.
Bellstam, Gustaf, Sanjai Bhagat, and J. Anthony Cookson, 2021, A text-based analysis of
corporate innovation, Management Science 67, 4004–4031.
Bertomeu, Jeremy, Yupeng Lin, Yibin Liu, and Zhenghui Ni, 2023, Capital market
consequences of generative AI: Early evidence from the ban of ChatGPT in Italy,
Washington University in St. Louis working paper.
Birru, Justin, Sinan Gokkaya, Xi Liu, and René M. Stulz, 2022, Are analyst short‐term trade
ideas valuable? Journal of Finance 77, 1829–1875.
Blanco, Eduardo, Nuria Castell, and Dan Moldovan, 2008, Causal relation extraction,
Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation,
LREC.
Blei, David M., Andrew Y. Ng, and Michael I. Jordan, 2003, Latent dirichlet allocation,
Journal of Machine Learning Research 3, 993–1022.
Bradshaw, Mark T., Lawrence D. Brown, and Kelly Huang, 2013, Do sell-side analysts
exhibit differential target price forecasting ability? Review of Accounting Studies 18, 930–
955.
Brav, Alon, and Reuven Lehavy, 2003, An empirical analysis of analysts’ target prices:
Short‐term informativeness and long‐term dynamics, Journal of Finance 58, 1933–1967.
Briscoe-Tran, Hoa, 2022, Diversity and inclusion, operating flexibility, and financial policies,
Ohio State University working paper.
39
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 42 ---
Brown, Lawrence D., Andrew C. Call, Michael B. Clement, and Nathan Y. Sharp, 2015,
Inside the “black box” of sell‐side financial analysts, Journal of Accounting Research 53,
1–47.
Bybee, Leland, 2023, The ghost in the machine: Generating beliefs with large language
models, ArXiv preprint arXiv:2305.02823.
Chi, Feng, Byoung-Hyoun Hwang, and Yaping Zheng, 2023, The use and usefulness of big
data in finance: Evidence from financial analysts, Nanyang Business School Research
Paper No. 22-01.
Choi, Freddy Y.Y., 2000, Advances in domain independent linear text segmentation, In
Proceedings of the 1st North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics Conference, NAACL 2000, USA: Association for Computational Linguistics,
26–33.
Clement, Michael B., and Senyo Y. Tse, 2005, Financial analyst characteristics and herding
behavior in forecasting, Journal of Finance 60, 307–341.
Derrien, François, and Ambrus Kecskés, 2013, The real effects of financial shocks: Evidence
from exogenous changes in analyst coverage, Journal of Finance 68, 1407–1440.
Devlin, Jacob, Ming-wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova, 2018, BERT: Pre-
training of deep bi-directional transformers for language understanding, ArXiv preprint
arXiv:1810.04805.
Eisfeldt, Andrea L., Gregor Schubert, and Miao Ben Zhang, 2023, Generative AI and firm
values, University of California, Los Angeles working paper.
Etzioni, Oren, Michele Banko, Stephen Soderland, and Daniel S. Weld, 2008, Open
information extraction from the web, Communications of the ACM 51, 68–74.
Gentzkow, Matthew, Bryan Kelly, and Matt Taddy, 2019, Text as data, Journal of Economic
Literature 57, 535–574.
Goldstein, Itay, Chester S. Spatt, and Mao Ye, 2021, Big data in finance, Review of Financial
Studies 34, 3213–3225.
Gorton, Gary B., Jillian Grennan, and Alexander K. Zentefis, 2022, Corporate culture,
Annual Review of Financial Economics 14, 535–561.
Graham, John R., Jillian Grennan, Campbell R. Harvey, and Shivaram Rajgopal, 2022a,
Corporate culture: Evidence from the field, Journal of Financial Economics 146, 552–
593.
Graham, John R., Jillian A. Grennan, Campbell R. Harvey, and Shivaram Rajgopal, 2022b,
Corporate culture: The interview evidence, Journal of Applied Corporate Finance 34, 22–
41.
40
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 43 ---
Grennan, Jillian, 2019, A corporate culture channel: How increased shareholder governance
reduces firm value, Duke University working paper.
Grennan, Jillian, and Kai Li, 2023, Corporate culture: A review and directions for future
research, In Handbook of Financial Decision Making, edited by Giles Hilary and David
McLean, United Kingdom: Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd., 112–132.
Guiso, Luigi, Paola Sapienza, and Luigi Zingales, 2015, The value of corporate culture,
Journal of Financial Economics 117, 60–76.
Heindorf, Stefan et al., 2020, CauseNet: Towards a causality graph extracted from the Web,
Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on Information & Knowledge
Management, October 2020, 3023–3030.
Huang, Allen H., Reuven Lehavy, Amy Y. Zang, and Rong Zheng, 2018, Analyst
information discovery and interpretation roles: A topic modeling approach, Management
Science 64, 2833–2855.
Huang, Allen H., Amy Y. Zang, and Rong Zheng, 2014, Evidence on the information content
of text in analyst reports, Accounting Review 89, 2151–2180.
Huang, Allen H., Hui Wang, and Yi Yang, 2023, FinBERT—A large language model
approach to extracting information from financial text, Contemporary Accounting
Research 40, 806–841.
Jha, Manish, Jialin Qian, Michael Weber, and Baozhong Yang, 2023, ChatGPT and corporate
policies, Georgia State University working paper.
Ji, Ziwei et al., 2023, Survey of hallucination in natural language generation, ACM
Computing Surveys 55, 1–38.
Kecskés, Ambrus, Roni Michaely, and Kent L. Womack, 2017, Do earnings estimates add
value to sell-side analysts’ investment recommendations? Management Science 63, 1855–
1871.
Kim, Alex G., Maximilian Muhn, and Valeri V. Nikolaev, 2023, Bloated disclosures: Can
ChatGPT help investors process information? University of Chicago working paper.
Lewis, Patrick et al., 2020, Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive NLP
tasks, In Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems, NIPS’20, Red Hook, NY, USA: Curran Associates Inc., 9459–9474.
Li, Edward Xuejun, Zhiyuan Tu, and Dexin Zhou, 2023, The promise and peril of generative
AI: Evidence from ChatGPT as sell-side analysts, City University of New York working
paper.
Li, Feng, 2010, The information content of forward-looking statements in corporate filings—
A Naïve Bayesian machine learning approach, Journal of Accounting Research 48, 1049–
1102.
41
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 44 ---
Li, Hongyi, and Eric Van den Steen, 2021, Birds of a feather … enforce social norms?
Interactions among culture, norms, and strategy, Strategy Science 6, 166–189.
Li, Kai, Xing Liu, Feng Mai, and Tengfei Zhang, 2021, The role of corporate culture in bad
times: Evidence from the COVID-19 pandemic, Journal of Financial and Quantitative
Analysis 56, 2545–2583.
Li, Kai, Feng Mai, Rui Shen, and Xinyan Yan, 2021, Measuring corporate culture using
machine learning, Review of Financial Studies 34, 3265–3315.
Li, Xina, Guoli Chen, and Rui Shen, 2024, Steering the intangible wheel: CEO succession
and corporate cultural change, Organization Science forthcoming.
Liu, Nelson F. et al., 2023. Lost in the middle: How language models use long contexts,
ArXiv preprint arXiv:2307.03172.
Liu, Xiaoding, 2016, Corruption culture and corporate misconduct, Journal of Financial
Economics 122, 307–327.
Loh, Roger K., and René M. Stulz, 2011, When are analyst recommendation changes
influential? Review of Financial Studies 24, 593–627.
Lopez-Lira, Alejandro, and Yuehua Tang, 2023, Can ChatGPT forecast stock price
movements? Return predictability and large language models, University of Florida
working paper.
Loughran, Tim, and Bill McDonald, 2011, When is a liability not a liability? Textual
analysis, dictionaries, and 10-Ks, Journal of Finance 66, 35–65.
Maynez, Joshua, Shashi Narayan, Bernd Bohnet, and Ryan McDonald, 2020, On faithfulness
and factuality in abstractive summarization, Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics, 1906–1919.
Mihăilă, Claudiu, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, and Sophia Ananiadou, 2013, BioCause:
Annotating and analysing causality in the biomedical domain, BMC Bioinformatics 14, 1–
18.
Oh, Jong-Hoon et al., 2013, Why-question answering using intra-and inter-sentential causal
relations, Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), 1733–1743.
Ouyang, Long et al., 2022, Training language models to follow instructions with human
feedback, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 35.
Pacelli, Joseph, Tianshuo Shi, and Yuan Zou, 2022, Communicating corporate culture in
labor markets: Evidence from job postings, Harvard Business School working paper.
Previts, Gary John, Robert J. Bricker, Thomas R. Robinson, and Stephen J. Young, 1994. A
content analysis of sell-side financial analyst company reports, Accounting Horizons 8,
55–70.
42
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 45 ---
Radinsky, Kira, Sagie Davidovich, and Shaul Markovitch, 2012, Learning causality for news
events prediction, Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on World Wide Web,
909–918.
Reimers, Nils, and Iryna Gurevych, 2019, Sentence-BERT: Sentence Embeddings using
Siamese BERT-Networks, Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), 3982–3992.
Soltes, Eugene, 2014, Private interaction between firm management and sell‐side analysts,
Journal of Accounting Research 52, 245–272.
Tetlock, Paul C., 2007, Giving content to investor sentiment: The role of media in the stock
market, Journal of Finance 62, 1139–1168.
Twedt, Brady, and Lynn Rees, 2012, Reading between the lines: An empirical examination of
qualitative attributes of financial analysts’ reports, Journal of Accounting and Public
Policy 31, 1–21.
Vaswani, Ashish et al., 2017, Attention is all you need, Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 30.
Wei, Jason et al., 2022a, Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language
models, Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 35, 24824–24837.
Wei, Jason et al., 2022b, Emergent abilities of large language models, Transactions on
Machine Learning Research.
Womack, Kent L., 1996. Do brokerage analysts’ recommendations have investment value?
Journal of Finance 51, 137–167.
Zingales, Luigi, 2015, The “cultural revolution” in finance, Journal of Financial Economics
117, 1–4.
43
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 46 ---
Figure 1
Flowchart of our information extraction method built on generative AI
This figure presents a flowchart to implement our information extraction method built on generative AI models
applied to millions of analyst reports over the period 2000-2020.
44
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 47 ---
Figure 2
Intensity of analysts’ culture-related discussions by year and report section
This heatmap depicts the intensity of analysts’ culture-related discussions across years and report sections. Our
sample comprises 2.4 million analyst reports over the period 2000-2020. The horizontal axis indicates report year,
and the vertical axis indicates report section, binned into 20 equal sections from the start to the end of a report.
The color gradient, ranging from light to dark, signifies the intensity of analysts’ culture-related discussions.
Intensity is computed as 100 ´ the number of culture-related segments in a section divided by the number of
reports in a year.
45
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 48 ---
Figure 3
Cause-effect knowledge graph of corporate culture
This figure summarizes major cause-effect relations involving corporate culture. Our sample comprises 2.4 million analyst reports over the period 2000-2020. In the left
column, we group the 17 causes into three groups: events, people, and systems. In the center column, we list nine cultural values. In the right column, we color-code the 16
business outcomes by tone. The height of each entity (cause, cultural value, or effect) corresponds to the number of relevant segments. The width of each link corresponds to
the number of segments mentioning a particular cause or effect relation.
46
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 49 ---
Table 1
Prompts for generative AI models
This table presents detailed instructions given to generative AI models to analyze and canonicalize information
from corporate culture-related segments in analyst reports. Panel A shows the main prompt outlining the step-by-
step process that generative AI models follow to extract information from each culture-related segment. It starts
with identifying a cultural value (e.g., adaptability and teamwork), followed by extracting information on a value’s
influencing factor, its effect, and tone. The final step involves generating a cause-effect knowledge graph in the
form of triples with their representation in a standard digital format called JSON (JavaScript Object Notation).
Panel B shows the additional prompt for scenarios when more context is asked by generative AI models and is
provided through retrieval augmented generation (RAG); under such scenarios, the underlined sections in Panel
A are omitted. Panel C shows the prompt to canonicalize cultural values. Panel D shows the prompt to canonicalize
causes and effects of a cultural value. Panel E shows the prompt to determine the direction of a cause or an effect.
Panel F shows the prompt to canonicalize reasons for analysts to discuss culture. Text within *** is a placeholder
that is adjusted dynamically.
Panel A: Chain-of-thought (CoT) prompt
As a sell-side equity analyst specializing in corporate culture and an expert in causal reasoning,
your task is to analyze a segment about corporate culture from a sell-side equity analyst research
report on a company. Your goal is to extract and interpret information about the company’s corporate
culture, even if it is not explicitly stated. Your final goal is to extract cause-effect
relationships in a JSON format. Let's think step by step.
1. Identify the corporate cultural value being discussed. Summarize it in a short phrase starting
with an adjective. If the cultural value is not explicitly mentioned, infer it from the context.
Avoid using generic adjectives such as strong/weak/positive/negative culture. If uncertain, state "I
need more context" in the JSON value of the key.
2. Infer the main reason that corporate culture is discussed in the segment by the analyst. List the
main reason for discussing corporate culture, or mark as 'N/A' if not applicable.
3. If explicitly mentioned or can be inferred, summarize any events or factors that have shaped,
changed, or will change this corporate cultural value. List the most important causes of this
corporate cultural value, or mark as 'N/A' if not applicable.
4. If explicitly mentioned or can be inferred, summarize the past, present, or future outcomes or
impacts of this corporate cultural value on the company. List the most important outcomes of this
corporate cultural value, or mark as 'N/A' if not applicable.
5. Determine the tone of the analyst’s discussion about the corporate cultural value. Options:
["positive", "negative", "neutral"].
6. Finally, based on your

--- PAGE 50 ---
Panel B: Prompt to inform generative AI models that additional context is provided
######### Segment on corporate culture:
***input***
######### Additional contexts in the report (use only if needed):
***additional contexts***
######### Output:
Panel C: Prompt to canonicalize cultural values
Given a set of corporate cultural values as inputs, classify them into nine major categories using
the following definitions and examples as a guide.
* Adaptability: Cultures emphasizing cultural shifts, adaptations, transformations, or resistance to
change. For example, “cultural change,” “cultural transformation,” “culture reset,” and “insular
culture.”
* Customer-oriented: Cultures prioritizing sales or customer relations. For example, “sales
culture,” “customer-centric,” and “brand-focused.”
* Innovation: Cultures emphasizing innovation, growth, and entrepreneurship. For example,
“entrepreneurial,” “innovation,” “growth-oriented,” and “technology-driven.”
* Integrity: Cultures valuing ethical behavior, fair practices, and community relationships. For
example, “enlightened hospitality,” “ESG-focused,” “fair business practices,” and “blame culture.”
* Operations-oriented: Cultures underscoring efficiency, productivity, and cost control. For
example, “decentralized,” “efficiency-focused,” and “cost-conscious.”
* People-oriented: Cultures centering on employee well-being, diversity, inclusion, empowerment, and
talent growth. For example, “employee-centric,” “diverse and inclusive,” and “talent-focused.”
* Results-oriented: Cultures focusing on performance, competitiveness, and results. For example,
“competitive,” “performance-driven,” and “pay-for-performance.”
* Risk control: Cultures stressing risk management, credit, and financial prudence. For example,
“conservative credit culture,” “risk-averse,” and “culture of compliance.”
* Teamwork: Cultures highlighting collaboration, integration, and team-orientation. For example,
“collaborative,” “integration,” “cultural fit,” and “partnership-oriented.”
Thoroughly analyze each corporate cultural value and try your best to assign it to the most fitting
category, using "Miscellaneous" only when other categories do not apply.
* Miscellaneous: This category contains various unspecific and less-frequently occurring cultural
values, or those that do not fit easily into the above categories. For example, “positive culture”
and “distinct culture.”
Format your response in JSON. Make sure you process all of the inputs. Response format:
{"all results":
[
{
"input_value_id": 1,
"input_cultural_value": **example value**,
"classification": **example classification**,
},
{
"input_value_id": 2,
"input_cultural_value": **example value**,
"classification": **example classification**,
},
... (other inputs)
]
}
Panel D: Prompt to canonicalize causes and effects of a corporate cultural value
Conduct entity canonicalization on selected phrases taken from sell-side equity analyst research
reports. These phrases are considered to be cau

--- PAGE 51 ---
----
Format your response in JSON. Make sure you process all of the inputs. Response format and
examples:{"all results":
[
{
"input_causes/consequence_id": 1,
"input_causes/consequence": **example cause/consequence**,
"classification": **example classification**,
},
{
"input_causes/consequence_i": 2,
"input_causes/consequence": **example cause/consequence**,
"classification": **example classification**,
},
... (other inputs)
]
}
Panel E: Prompt to canonicalize cause-effect directions
You are conducting cause-effect knowledge graph canonicalization, with a focus on relationships that
indicate a cause or an effect. Your assignment is as follows:
Establish the direction of the input relationship. You should map the direction into 'A -> B' or 'A
<- B', where the arrow indicates the direction of the cause-effect relationship. For clearly
unidirectional relationships such as 'affect', 'impact', 'influenced by', these should be marked as
'A -> B' or 'A <- B'. Only in rare cases where the direction of the relationship could be truly
bidirectional, mark the direction as 'A <-> B'.
Format your response in JSON. Make sure you process all of the input segments. Response format:
{
"all results": [
{
"input_relationship_id": 1,
"input_relationship": "A provides opportunity for B",
"direction": "A -> B",
},
{
"input_relationship_id": 2,
"input_relationship": "A threatened by B",
"direction": "A <- B",
},
{
"input_relationship_id": 3,
"input_relationship": "A influenced by B",
"direction": "A <- B",
},
{
"input_relationship_id": 4,
"input_relationship": "A affects B",
"direction": "A -> B",
},
... (other inputs)
]
}
Panel F: Prompt to canonicalize reasons for discussing corporate culture
Analyze a set of reasons related to a sell-side equity analyst’s discussion of corporate culture in
their research reports on companies. Classify each input reason into one of the following five major
categories using the following definition provided for each category as a guide. If a reason does
not fit into any of the five categories, classify it as "Uncategorized".
* Financial performance, valuation, and competitive advantage: Encompass reasons focusing on the
impact of corporate culture on financial performance, competitive positioning, and market
differentiation. Analyze how corporate culture influences a company's financial health and
competitive edge.
* Mergers and acquisitions integration: Encompass reasons related to M&A activities, integration of
acquisitions, integration of mergers, and cultural impacts post-M&A. Assess how cultural integration
affects the potential synergies or challenges of these actions.
49
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 52 ---
* Human capital management: Encompass reasons concerning talent attraction, retention, and employee
morale. Evaluate how corporate culture affects the company's ability to manage and develop its human
capital.
* Strategic alignment and execution: Encompass reasons focusing on strategic initiatives, management
changes, and organizational restructuring. Examine the alignment of corporate culture with the
company's strategy and its execution capabilities.
* Corporate governance and risk management: Encompass reasons related to corporate boards,
leadership dynamics, top management succession planning, and regulatory compliance. Assess how
corporate culture impacts corporate governance practices and risk management.
Format your response in JSON. Make sure you process all of the inputs. Response format:
{"all results":
[
{
"input_reason_id": 1,
"input_reason": "",
"classification": "One of the 5 major categories",
},
{
"input_reason_id": 2,
"input_reason": "",
"classification": "One of the 5 major categories",
},
... (other inputs)
]
}
50
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 53 ---
Table 2
Performance evaluation of different generative AI models
This table presents our performance evaluation of different generative AI models in terms of extracting cultural
values, causes, effects, cause-effect, and tones. We compare the performance of GPT-4, GPT-3.5, and PaLM in
terms of accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 against human annotations of a randomly chosen set of 200 culture-
related segments. We group our fact-checking into four scenarios. True positive denotes a scenario in which
generative AI extracts similar information about cultural values/causes/effects/cause-effect relations as we do.
False positive denotes a scenario in which generative AI extracts different (false) information from we do. True
negative denotes a scenario in which generative AI extracts no information, and neither do we. False negative
denotes a scenario in which generative AI extracts false information while we do not find relevant information.
We compute four performance metrics. Accuracy is defined as (#True Positive + #True Negative)/(#True Positive
+ #False Positive + #False Negative + #True Negative), and measures how accurate a model is at correctly
classifying culture-related information out of the 200 segments. Precision is defined as (#True Positive)/(#True
Positive + #False Positive) and measures how accurate a model is at identifying correct (positive) culture-related
information out of all culture-related information that is predicted to be positive. Recall is defined as (#True
Positive)/(#True Positive + #False Negative), and measures how accurate a model is at identifying correct
(positive) culture-related information out of all identified culture-related information. F1 is the harmonic mean of
Precision and Recall. Tone refers to the tone (negative, neutral, or positive) of culture-related information.
Performance
AI Model Culture value Cause Effect Cause-effect Tone
metric
Accuracy GPT-4 94.5% 91.5% 94.0% 80.5% 93.0%
GPT-3.5 91.0% 86.5% 88.5% 71.0% 91.5%
PaLM 81.5% 80.0% 85.5% 67.0% 88.5%
Precision GPT-4 94.5% 93.0% 94.9% 82.1% 93.0%
GPT-3.5 91.0% 90.4% 92.6% 75.6% 91.5%
PaLM 89.5% 88.3% 90.9% 74.5% 93.2%
Recall GPT-4 100.0% 97.7% 98.9% 96.2% 100.0%
GPT-3.5 100.0% 94.1% 95.1% 88.2% 100.0%
PaLM 90.0% 87.3% 93.4% 81.8% 94.7%
F1 GPT-4 97.2% 95.3% 96.9% 88.6% 96.4%
GPT-3.5 95.3% 92.2% 93.8% 81.4% 95.6%
PaLM 89.8% 87.8% 92.1% 78.0% 93.9%
51
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 54 ---
Table 3
Frequency distributions of culture-related discussions in analyst reports
This table presents frequency distributions of culture-related discussions (cultural values, causes, and effects) in
analyst reports over the period 2000-2020. Panel A lists the frequency distribution of cultural values in 32,186
reports with culture-related segments. Panel B lists the frequency distribution of causes of culture in 27,064 reports
with culture-related segments. Panel C lists the frequency distribution of effects of culture in 31,643 reports with
culture-related segments. One report could be associated with multiple cultural values, causes, or effects.
Panel A: Frequency distribution of cultural values
Cultural value Count Percentage
Innovation 15,601 16.9%
Adaptability 14,711 15.9%
Miscellaneous 14,690 15.9%
Customer-oriented 10,634 11.5%
Results-oriented 7,923 8.6%
Operations-oriented 7,800 8.4%
Risk control 6,788 7.3%
People-oriented 6,033 6.5%
Teamwork 4,873 5.3%
Integrity 3,419 3.7%
Total 92,472 100.0%
Panel B: Frequency distribution of causes of culture
Cause Count Percentage
Business strategy 24,874 18.4%
Management team 16,761 12.4%
Miscellaneous 15,255 11.3%
Strategic transformation 11,960 8.8%
Employee hiring and retention 10,519 7.8%
Mergers and acquisitions 9,314 6.9%
Management change 9,258 6.8%
Customer relations 7,111 5.3%
Market expansion 6,256 4.6%
Business relationship 5,296 3.9%
Compensation structure 4,818 3.6%
Disruptive technology 3,997 3.0%
Internal conflicts 2,489 1.8%
Economic downturn 2,168 1.6%
Shareholder activism 1,911 1.4%
Regulatory issues 1,720 1.3%
Workplace safety 1,299 1.0%
COVID-19 178 0.1%
Total 135,184 100.0%
52
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 55 ---
Panel C: Frequency distribution of effects of culture
Effect Count Percentage
Market share and growth 26,172 16.2%
Profitability 21,934 13.6%
Employee satisfaction 13,519 8.4%
Customer satisfaction 12,941 8.0%
Resilience 12,815 7.9%
Innovation 10,806 6.7%
Risk management 9,779 6.1%
Business relationship 8,946 5.5%
Shareholder value 8,623 5.3%
Management change and retention 8,293 5.1%
Miscellaneous 8,250 5.1%
Mergers and acquisitions 7,450 4.6%
ESG practices 4,289 2.7%
Investor relations 3,062 1.9%
Diversity, equity, and inclusion 2,110 1.3%
Internal conflicts 1,581 1.0%
Misconduct 728 0.5%
Total 161,298 100.0%
53
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 56 ---
Table 4
Sample formation
This table reports the impact of various data filters on sample formation. Our sample starts from Thomson One’s Investext over the period 2002-2020.
Panel A: Sample formation of the firm-year sample
# firm-year
# unique
# firm-year obs. obs.
firms
removed
Firm-years with analyst reports in Thomson One’s Investext. 34,414 2,889
Remove firm-years with missing financial information from Compustat. 30,978 3,436 2,728
Remove firm-years with missing information from ExecuComp. 28,860 2,118 2,569
Remove firm-years without corporate culture data from Li et al. (2021). 24,608 4,252 2,329
Remove firm-years without Glassdoor data. 9,645 14,963 1,143
Panel B: Sample formation of the firm-analyst-year sample
# firm-
# firm-analyst- analyst-year # unique
year obs. obs. firms
removed
Firm-analyst-years with analyst reports in Thomson One’s Investext. 243,856 2,907
Remove firm-analyst-years not in our firm-year sample. 147,180 96,676 2,490
Remove firm-analyst-years with missing analyst characteristics from I/B/E/S. 142,868 4,312 2,484
54
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 57 ---
Table 5
Summary statistics
This table presents the summary statistics for samples used in different regression analyses. Our firm-year sample
consists of 28,860 firm-year observations, representing 2,569 unique firms over the period 2002-2020. Our firm-
analyst-year sample consists of 142,868 firm-analyst-year observations, representing 2,484 unique firms followed
by 4,043 analysts. Definitions of the variables are provided in the Appendix.
25th 75th
Mean Median SD
Percentile Percentile
Firm-year sample
Culture discussion 0.425 0.000 0.000 1.000 0.494
Number of values 6.736 2.000 10.000 10.000 3.953
Tone 0.676 0.500 1.000 1.000 0.509
Adaptability 0.151 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.358
Customer-oriented 0.093 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.291
Innovation 0.155 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.362
Integrity 0.045 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.208
Operations-oriented 0.090 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.286
People-oriented 0.072 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.258
Results-oriented 0.096 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.295
Risk control 0.071 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.257
Teamwork 0.062 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.241
Miscellaneous 0.151 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.358
Total assets 14.204 0.892 2.747 9.320 38.370
Firm age 26.566 13.000 21.000 39.000 17.360
Sales growth 0.097 -0.009 0.070 0.168 0.225
ROA 0.037 0.011 0.042 0.081 0.096
Leverage 0.234 0.065 0.211 0.352 0.195
Tangibility 0.237 0.051 0.149 0.357 0.238
ROA volatility 0.040 0.007 0.018 0.042 0.063
Large institutional ownership 0.369 0.110 0.349 0.579 0.294
Board independence 0.714 0.615 0.688 0.857 0.136
CEO duality 0.493 0.000 0.000 1.000 0.500
Number of key people changes 3.447 1.000 2.000 5.000 3.582
Number of M&As 0.713 0.000 0.000 1.000 1.199
Corporate culture 13.770 10.126 12.844 16.518 4.933
Employee culture rating 2.210 0.000 2.700 3.250 1.441
Number of employee reviews 88.950 4.000 18.000 68.000 216.707
Firm-analyst-year sample
Culture discussion 0.121 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.326
Number of segments 1.900 1.000 1.000 2.000 1.327
Number of reports 1.569 1.000 1.000 2.000 0.956
Number of values 1.495 1.000 1.000 2.000 0.943
Tone 0.667 0.500 1.000 1.000 0.582
Star analyst 0.072 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.259
Female 0.110 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.313
Forecast horizon 1.237 1.035 1.152 1.334 0.316
General experience 11.030 5.000 10.000 15.000 6.973
Firm experience 5.342 2.000 4.000 7.000 4.387
Number of industries followed 4.482 2.000 4.000 6.000 2.596
55
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 58 ---
Number of firms followed 19.009 14.000 18.000 23.000 8.168
Forecast frequency 4.737 3.000 4.000 6.000 2.475
Number of analysts at a broker 64.314 26.000 54.000 103.000 44.235
56
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 59 ---
Table 6
Analysts discussing corporate culture in reports and executives discussing corporate culture in
earnings calls
This table examines whether analysts’ discussions of corporate culture are mainly driven by what they hear from
earnings calls. The sample comprises 12,267 firm-year observations whose analysts discuss corporate culture in
their reports over the period 2002-2020. Panel A presents two-sample t-test and Wilcoxon rank-sum test between
firm-year observations with earnings conference calls and firm-year observations without. Panel B presents two-
sample t-test and Wilcoxon rank-sum test between firm-year observations with high Corporate culture and firm-
year observations with low Corporate culture. Corporate culture is the sum of five cultural values extracted from
earnings conference calls in a year. The data is from Li et al. (2021). A firm is classified as having high (low)
Corporate culture if its value is in the top (bottom) quartile in an industry-year. Industry is based on Fama-French
12-industry classifications. Definitions of the variables are provided in the Appendix. ***, **, * correspond to
statistical significance at the 1, 5, and 10 percent levels, respectively.
Panel A: Firm-year observations with and without earnings calls
Subsample with earnings Subsample without
Two-sample differences
calls earnings calls
Wilcoxon
Mean Median Mean Median t-test
test
Number of segments 4.406 2.000 4.842 2.000 -0.436** 0.000
Number of reports 3.190 2.000 3.073 2.000 0.117 0.000***
Number of values 2.313 2.000 2.369 2.000 -0.056 0.000
Tone 0.675 1.000 0.682 1.000 -0.007 -0.000
Adaptability 0.360 0.000 0.325 0.000 0.035*** 0.000***
Customer-oriented 0.214 0.000 0.258 0.000 -0.044*** -0.000***
Innovation 0.372 0.000 0.310 0.000 0.062*** 0.000***
Integrity 0.107 0.000 0.103 0.000 0.004 0.000
Operations-oriented 0.211 0.000 0.219 0.000 -0.008 -0.000
People-oriented 0.169 0.000 0.166 0.000 0.003 0.000
Results-oriented 0.222 0.000 0.256 0.000 -0.034*** -0.000***
Risk control 0.160 0.000 0.215 0.000 -0.055*** -0.000***
Teamwork 0.144 0.000 0.154 0.000 -0.010 -0.000
Miscellaneous 0.355 0.000 0.363 0.000 -0.008 -0.000
Total assets 23.248 5.206 24.393 4.408 -1.145 0.798**
Firm age 28.442 23.000 25.015 21.000 3.427*** 2.000***
Sales growth 0.097 0.071 0.101 0.073 -0.004 0.002
ROA 0.051 0.050 0.045 0.041 0.006*** 0.009***
Leverage 0.233 0.211 0.209 0.187 0.024*** 0.024***
Tangibility 0.216 0.132 0.215 0.133 0.001 -0.001
ROA volatility 0.030 0.015 0.028 0.012 0.002** 0.003***
Large institutional ownership 0.367 0.353 0.234 0.160 0.133*** 0.193***
Board independence 0.708 0.688 0.660 0.643 0.048*** 0.045***
CEO duality 0.504 1.000 0.593 1.000 -0.089** -0.000***
57
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 60 ---
Panel B: Firm-year observations with high and low corporate culture
Subsample with high Subsample with low
Two-sample differences
corporate culture corporate culture
Wilcoxon
Mean Median Mean Median t-test
test
Number of segments 5.228 3.000 3.794 2.000 1.434*** 1.000***
Number of reports 3.662 2.000 2.767 2.000 0.895*** 0.000***
Number of values 2.540 2.000 2.084 1.000 0.456*** 1.000***
Tone 0.651 1.000 0.685 1.000 -0.034** -0.000***
Adaptability 0.406 0.000 0.321 0.000 0.085*** 0.000***
Customer-oriented 0.249 0.000 0.180 0.000 0.069*** 0.000***
Innovation 0.438 0.000 0.297 0.000 0.141*** 0.000***
Integrity 0.120 0.000 0.102 0.000 0.018** 0.000**
Operations-oriented 0.209 0.000 0.218 0.000 -0.009 0.000
People-oriented 0.191 0.000 0.133 0.000 0.058*** 0.000***
Results-oriented 0.238 0.000 0.224 0.000 0.014 0.000
Risk control 0.141 0.000 0.178 0.000 -0.037*** -0.000***
Teamwork 0.161 0.000 0.121 0.000 0.040*** 0.000***
Miscellaneous 0.386 0.000 0.311 0.000 0.075*** 0.000***
Total assets 22.370 3.407 21.940 6.626 0.43 -3.219***
Firm age 24.540 19.000 31.717 28.000 -7.177*** -9.000***
Sales growth 0.108 0.077 0.084 0.067 0.024*** 0.010***
ROA 0.050 0.052 0.048 0.047 0.002 0.005**
Leverage 0.211 0.177 0.249 0.228 -0.038*** -0.051***
Tangibility 0.193 0.113 0.234 0.157 -0.041*** -0.044***
ROA volatility 0.036 0.019 0.026 0.013 0.010*** 0.006***
Large institutional ownership 0.364 0.354 0.359 0.348 0.005 0.006
Board independence 0.705 0.688 0.714 0.688 -0.009** -0.000***
CEO duality 0.472 0.000 0.536 1.000 -0.064*** -1.000***
58
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 61 ---
Table 7
Determinants of analysts’ discussing corporate culture in reports
This table examines the determinants of analysts’ discussing corporate culture in their reports. Panel A examines
the relations between firm characteristics and analysts’ discussing culture at the firm-year level. Our firm-year
sample consists of 28,860 firm-year observations, representing 2,569 unique firms over the period 2002-2020.
The dependent variable, Culture discussion, is an indicator variable that takes the value of one if corporate culture
is discussed in analyst reports in a year, and zero otherwise. Panel B examines the relations between firm
characteristics and the scope and tone of analysts’ discussing culture in reports. Number of values is the number
of corporate cultural values discussed in analyst reports in a year. Tone is the average tone of culture-related
segments in analyst reports in a year. Panel C examines the relations between analyst characteristics and them
discussing culture at the firm-analyst-year level. Our firm-analyst-year sample consists of 142,868 firm-analyst-
year observations, representing 2,484 unique firms followed by 4,043 analysts. Industry fixed effects are based
on Fama-French 12-industry classifications. Definitions of the variables are provided in the Appendix.
Heteroskedasticity-consistent standard errors (in parentheses) are clustered at the firm level. ***, **, * correspond
to statistical significance at the 1, 5, and 10 percent levels, respectively.
Panel A: Firm characteristics and analysts’ discussing corporate culture in reports
Culture discussion
Variable (1) (2) (3) (4)
Firm size 0.100*** 0.084*** 0.086*** 0.046***
(0.004) (0.004) (0.004) (0.007)
Ln(Firm age + 1) -0.026*** -0.029*** -0.018** -0.018
(0.008) (0.008) (0.009) (0.013)
Sales growth 0.031** 0.033** 0.028* 0.101***
(0.014) (0.014) (0.015) (0.027)
ROA 0.291*** 0.329*** 0.307*** 0.144*
(0.046) (0.045) (0.047) (0.079)
Leverage -0.163*** -0.156*** -0.122*** -0.032
(0.027) (0.026) (0.027) (0.041)
Tangibility -0.092*** -0.078*** -0.057* -0.067
(0.030) (0.029) (0.030) (0.042)
ROA volatility -0.134** -0.199*** -0.276*** -0.437***
(0.063) (0.062) (0.066) (0.116)
Large institution ownership -0.074*** -0.071*** -0.070*** -0.099***
(0.016) (0.015) (0.016) (0.025)
Board independence -0.195*** -0.227*** -0.239*** -0.402***
(0.039) (0.038) (0.040) (0.067)
CEO duality 0.004 0.011 0.011 0.009
(0.009) (0.009) (0.009) (0.014)
Ln(Number of key people changes + 1) 0.068*** 0.055*** 0.042***
(0.005) (0.006) (0.009)
Ln(Number of M&As + 1) 0.028*** 0.021*** 0.010
(0.007) (0.008) (0.012)
Corporate culture 0.014*** 0.010***
(0.001) (0.002)
Employee culture rating 0.005
(0.007)
Ln(Number of employee reviews + 1) 0.047***
(0.006)
Constant YES YES YES YES
Industry FE YES YES YES YES
Year FE YES YES YES YES
Adjusted R2 0.146 0.157 0.172 0.174
No. of observations 28,860 28,860 24,608 9,645
59
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 62 ---
Panel B: Firm characteristics and the scope and tone of analysts’ discussing corporate culture in reports
Number of values Tone
Variable (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8)
Firm size 0.311*** 0.242*** 0.244*** 0.158*** -0.019*** -0.014*** -0.015*** -0.025***
(0.026) (0.025) (0.023) (0.040) (0.005) (0.005) (0.005) (0.009)
Ln(Firm age + 1) -0.001 -0.009 0.030 0.036 -0.005 -0.004 -0.005 -0.009
(0.046) (0.044) (0.044) (0.064) (0.010) (0.010) (0.011) (0.015)
Sales growth 0.141* 0.175** 0.181** 0.453*** 0.053* 0.049* 0.044 0.095**
(0.084) (0.083) (0.088) (0.148) (0.029) (0.029) (0.031) (0.046)
ROA 1.129*** 1.283*** 0.858*** -0.448 0.254*** 0.241*** 0.220** 0.205
(0.312) (0.302) (0.279) (0.480) (0.085) (0.086) (0.090) (0.129)
Leverage -0.354*** -0.346*** -0.242* -0.070 -0.012 -0.014 -0.014 0.036
(0.130) (0.125) (0.129) (0.187) (0.033) (0.033) (0.035) (0.049)
Tangibility 0.069 0.140 0.176 -0.091 0.081** 0.076** 0.070** 0.099**
(0.165) (0.159) (0.158) (0.203) (0.033) (0.033) (0.035) (0.047)
ROA volatility -0.450 -0.858** -1.245*** -1.541*** -0.422*** -0.387*** -0.268* -0.031
(0.358) (0.350) (0.339) (0.586) (0.147) (0.146) (0.146) (0.205)
Large institution ownership -0.320*** -0.313*** -0.285*** -0.270** 0.031 0.031 0.021 0.018
(0.084) (0.082) (0.082) (0.128) (0.023) (0.023) (0.024) (0.039)
Board independence -0.118 -0.257 -0.175 -0.461 -0.025 -0.013 -0.001 -0.064
(0.224) (0.218) (0.214) (0.329) (0.051) (0.050) (0.054) (0.079)
CEO duality -0.008 0.024 0.037 -0.007 0.016 0.014 0.020 -0.004
(0.052) (0.051) (0.050) (0.073) (0.012) (0.012) (0.013) (0.020)
Ln(Number of key people changes + 1) 0.274*** 0.214*** 0.187*** -0.024*** -0.017** -0.013
(0.030) (0.031) (0.046) (0.007) (0.008) (0.012)
Ln(Number of M&As + 1) 0.165*** 0.127*** 0.128* -0.009 -0.005 -0.004
(0.045) (0.046) (0.070) (0.010) (0.011) (0.016)
Corporate culture 0.050*** 0.045*** -0.003** -0.003*
(0.006) (0.009) (0.001) (0.002)
Employee culture rating -0.001 -0.005
(0.036) (0.012)
Ln(Number of employee reviews + 1) 0.140*** 0.016*
(0.034) (0.008)
Constant YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES
Industry FE YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES
Year FE YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES
60
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 63 ---
Adjusted R2 0.133 0.149 0.157 0.167 0.020 0.021 0.018 0.016
No. of observations 12,267 12,267 10,699 4,821 12,267 12,267 10,699 4,821
Panel C: Analyst characteristics and their discussing corporate culture in reports
Culture discussion Number of values Tone Culture discussion Number of values Tone
Variable (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
Star analyst -0.001 0.010 -0.035 0.019*** 0.138*** -0.061**
(0.005) (0.049) (0.024) (0.005) (0.051) (0.026)
Female 0.010** 0.065 0.028 0.010** 0.069 0.020
(0.004) (0.046) (0.018) (0.004) (0.045) (0.019)
Forecast horizon 0.003 0.163*** -0.025 0.008* 0.135** -0.002
(0.004) (0.052) (0.024) (0.004) (0.066) (0.031)
General experience 0.001*** 0.006** -0.000 0.001*** 0.004* -0.000
(0.000) (0.002) (0.001) (0.000) (0.002) (0.001)
Firm experience 0.002*** 0.001 -0.001 0.002*** 0.002 -0.000
(0.000) (0.003) (0.002) (0.000) (0.003) (0.002)
Number of industries followed 0.001* 0.020** 0.000 -0.001 0.014* 0.001
(0.001) (0.008) (0.004) (0.001) (0.008) (0.004)
Number of firms followed -0.000** -0.002 0.000 -0.000 -0.001 0.000
(0.000) (0.002) (0.001) (0.000) (0.002) (0.001)
Forecast frequency -0.001 -0.005 -0.000 0.001** 0.003 -0.002
(0.001) (0.007) (0.004) (0.001) (0.007) (0.004)
Broker size 0.015*** 0.071*** 0.017* 0.013*** 0.000 0.051
(0.001) (0.017) (0.010) (0.004) (0.054) (0.036)
Constant YES YES YES YES YES YES
Firm × Year FE YES YES YES YES YES YES
Broker FE NO NO NO YES YES YES
Adjusted R2 0.114 0.050 0.144 0.136 0.083 0.162
No. of observations 142,868 17,309 17,309 142,868 17,309 17,309
61
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 64 ---
Table 8
Analysts’ views of corporate culture and their research output
This table examines the relationships between analysts’ views of corporate culture and their stock
recommendations and target prices at the report level. Panel A presents the summary statistics for the key variables.
Panel B examines the relationships between analysts’ tones in culture-related segments and their stock
recommendations and target prices. Panel C examines the relationships between analysts’ cultural value-specific
tones in culture-related segments and their stock recommendations and target prices. The dependent variable in
column (1), Recommendation, is a report’s stock recommendation using a five-tier rating system where 2
represents “strong buy,” 1 represents “buy,” 0 represents “hold,” -1 represents “underperform,” and -2 represents
“sell.” The dependent variable in column (2), Target price, is a report’s target price divided by the stock price 50
days before the report date (in percentage points). Panel D repeats the analysis in Panel B limiting to a subsample
of reports with recommendation/target price revisions. Industry fixed effects are based on Fama-French 12-
industry classifications. Definitions of the variables are provided in the Appendix. Heteroskedasticity-consistent
standard errors (in parentheses) are double-clustered at the firm and analyst levels. ***, **, * correspond to
statistical significance at the 1, 5, and 10 percent levels, respectively.
Panel A: Summary statistics for the key variables
25th 75th
Mean Median SD
Percentile Percentile
Stock recommendation sample
Recommendation 0.650 0.000 1.000 1.000 0.854
Recommendation down 0.413 0.000 0.000 1.000 0.492
Tone 0.016 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.142
Target price sample
Target price (%) 118.141 104.454 116.908 129.921 23.910
Target price down 0.361 0.000 0.000 1.000 0.480
Panel B: The tone in culture-related segments, stock recommendations, and target prices
Recommendation Target price
Variable (1) (2)
Tone 0.109*** 1.653***
(0.009) (0.198)
Non-culture tone 0.312*** 6.882***
(0.007) (0.174)
Report length 0.014*** 0.011
(0.002) (0.042)
Star analyst 0.011 0.109
(0.015) (0.403)
Female 0.000 0.000
(0.000) (0.000)
Forecast horizon -0.010 0.052
(0.022) (0.494)
General experience -0.001 -0.072
(0.004) (0.118)
Firm experience 0.006*** 0.078***
(0.001) (0.029)
Number of industries followed 0.002 0.027
(0.003) (0.080)
Number of firms followed -0.001* -0.004
(0.001) (0.019)
Forecast frequency 0.006*** 0.091**
(0.001) (0.039)
Broker size -0.051*** -0.651**
(0.012) (0.259)
62
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 65 ---
Constant YES YES
Firm × Year FE YES YES
Analyst FE YES YES
Adjusted R2 0.450 0.399
No. of observations 1,040,758 1,033,669
Panel C: The tone in cultural value-related segments, stock recommendations, and target prices
Recommendation Target price
Variable (1) (2)
Adaptability tone 0.129*** 1.824***
(0.017) (0.408)
Customer-oriented tone 0.106*** 1.344***
(0.021) (0.454)
Innovation tone 0.103*** 1.803***
(0.018) (0.487)
Integrity tone 0.122*** 2.385***
(0.033) (0.755)
Operations-oriented tone 0.075*** 1.073**
(0.024) (0.530)
People-oriented tone 0.131*** 1.987**
(0.049) (0.776)
Results-oriented tone 0.098*** 1.678**
(0.025) (0.680)
Risk control tone 0.111*** 1.250**
(0.026) (0.566)
Teamwork tone 0.097*** 3.071***
(0.031) (0.991)
Miscellaneous tone 0.116*** 1.197**
(0.018) (0.477)
Non-culture tone 0.312*** 6.882***
(0.007) (0.174)
Report length 0.014*** 0.011
(0.002) (0.042)
Other analyst controls YES YES
Constant YES YES
Firm × Year FE YES YES
Analyst FE YES YES
Adjusted R2 0.450 0.399
No. of observations 1,040,758 1,033,669
Panel D: The tone in culture-related segments, stock recommendation revisions, and target price revisions
Recommendation Target price
down down
Variable (1) (2)
Tone -0.074*** -0.041***
(0.013) (0.005)
Non-culture tone -0.387*** -0.325***
(0.007) (0.004)
Report length -0.025*** 0.005***
(0.003) (0.001)
Other analyst controls YES YES
Constant YES YES
Firm × Year FE YES YES
Analyst FE YES YES
Adjusted R2 0.261 0.361
No. of observations 60,441 339,875
63
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 66 ---
Table 9
Information content of analysts’ views of corporate culture
This table examines the information content of analysts’ views of corporate culture at the report level. The sample
comprises 47,336 reports that contain an earnings forecast revision and are not issued at the same time as other
reports on the same firm or any other major corporate announcements. Panel A presents the summary statistics
for the key variables. Panel B presents the regression results. The dependent variable, CAR[-1,+1], is the
cumulative abnormal return (in percentage points) centered around the report date (day 0) based on a market
model. Industry fixed effects are based on Fama-French 12-industry classifications. Definitions of the variables
are provided in the Appendix. Heteroskedasticity-consistent standard errors (in parentheses) are double-clustered
at the firm and analyst levels. ***, **, * correspond to statistical significance at the 1, 5, and 10 percent levels,
respectively.
Panel A: Summary statistics for the key variables
25th 75th
Mean Median SD
Percentile Percentile
CAR[-1,+1] (%) -0.024 -1.932 -0.047 1.856 4.489
Tone 0.019 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.156
Non-culture tone 0.174 -0.111 0.200 0.500 0.476
Panel B: Price reactions to analyst reports
CAR[-1,+1] CAR[-1,+1]
Variable (1) (2)
Tone 0.306***
(0.118)
Adaptability tone 0.194
(0.358)
Customer-oriented tone 0.393
(0.434)
Innovation tone 0.229
(0.247)
Integrity tone 0.757
(0.805)
Operations-oriented tone 1.122***
(0.413)
People-oriented tone 0.177
(0.492)
Results-oriented tone 0.287
(0.302)
Risk control tone 0.433
(0.329)
Teamwork tone -0.076
(0.538)
Miscellaneous tone 0.026
(0.348)
Non-culture tone 1.136*** 1.136***
(0.055) (0.055)
Report length 0.065*** 0.065***
(0.025) (0.025)
Earnings forecast revision 29.463*** 29.463***
(0.031) (0.031)
Recommendation revision 0.264*** 0.264***
(0.019) (0.019)
Target price revision 0.010*** 0.010***
(0.000) (0.000)
Prior CAR -0.020*** -0.020***
(0.004) (0.004)
64
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 67 ---
Other analyst/firm controls YES YES
Constant YES YES
Industry FE YES YES
Year FE YES YES
Adjusted R2 0.044 0.044
No. of observations 47,336 47,336
65
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 68 ---
Internet Appendix for
Dissecting Corporate Culture Using Generative AI
– Insights from Analyst Reports
A. Technical Appendix
In this appendix, we describe technical details of how we preprocess analyst reports, remove
boilerplate segments, identify culture-related segments via word sense disambiguation and a machine
learning model, and implement canonicalization of cultural values and causes/effects. Figure 1
provides a flowchart of our information extraction method built on generative AI models.
1. Converting Reports from PDF to Text
We download 2,434,782 reports over the period 2000-2020 from Thomson One’s Investext database.
The reports are in PDF format. We use GROBID (https://github.com/kermitt2/grobid), an open-source
software, to extract structured information from PDF documents and transform this information into
XML documents. The XML documents are then stripped of information identified as tables, annexes,
notes, and author information; the main content is converted to plain text. We further split text into
sentences using OpenNLP’s sentence segment module, a built-in function in GROBID.
2. Segment Chunking
An inherent challenge resulting from the conversion process described above is the loss of paragraph
structure in reports. Moreover, even if the structure could have been maintained, differentiating
between headers, bullet points, and coherent paragraphs in a report is not straightforward.
To address these issues, we employ the C99 algorithm, a common text segmentation technique
developed by Choi (2000). The C99 algorithm is a domain-independent, unsupervised method for
linear text segmentation. Its defining principle is that topics in a text document are coherent, and topic
shifts can be identified by a sharp decline in coherence. The algorithm quantifies coherence through
pairwise similarity of sentences. It builds a matrix of cosine similarities between the TF-IDF
representations of sentences in a document. Segmentation points are identified wherever there are
sudden drops in the average similarity of sentences. The C99 algorithm enables us to coalesce
individual sentences into larger, more meaningful segments that align more closely with coherent
thoughts or ideas in the text. Consequently, we use these segmented units, rather than individual
sentences, as the unit of analysis for our study.
3. Removing Boilerplate Segments
To identify and remove boilerplate segments in analyst reports, we employ a machine learning model
specifically designed and trained for this purpose.
To construct the training data set for our model, we first identify the top 20 brokers producing the
highest volume of reports each year. From each of those brokers in each sample year, we sample
1,000 of their reports. We then identify the top 10% most frequently repeated segments within those
reports. For a segment to be classified as a positive example, it must satisfy two criteria: it is among
the top 10% most frequently repeated segments, and it is repeated

--- PAGE 69 ---
positive to negative examples. This results in a training data set of 547,790 examples, comprising
54,779 positive examples of boilerplate segments and 493,011 negative examples of non-boilerplate
segments. The data set is split into training, validation, and testing sets, using an 80/10/10 ratio.
Our approach to identifying boilerplate segments in reports makes use of the SentenceTransformer
model, specifically the all-mpnet-base-v2 variant. This model builds on an architecture similar to
BERT, but focuses on creating high-quality sentence-level embeddings instead of token-level
embeddings. This is particularly beneficial for our task as it views sentences and segments as distinct
units of meaning, and thereby generates more effective and contextually relevant embeddings. To
generate these embeddings, the SentenceTransformer model employs a mean pooling operation on the
output of the transformer network, i.e., it creates a fixed-length sentence embedding by averaging all
token embeddings. This operation gives us a representation of each sentence in a 768-dimensional
vector space. For a segment containing multiple sentences, we compute the mean of all the sentence
embeddings within that segment to yield a representative vector. This is an essential step because it
allows us to convert segments of varying lengths into fixed-length representations, which can then be
directly fed into our classification model. We find that this simple aggregation method performs well
in capturing the overall semantic context of a segment.
BERT, with its bi-directional context understanding, is known to be effective for a broad range of
NLP tasks (Devlin et al. 2018). A standard practice is to fine-tune the pre-trained BERT model on a
specific task, which adjusts all the model parameters. This approach typically achieves high
performance as it enables the pre-trained BERT model to learn from the specifics of the task,
capitalizing on its general language understanding capabilities while adapting to task-specific
nuances. However, given the context of our research, we adopt a different strategy that leverages both
the representation power of the pre-trained BERT model and the efficiency of a classification head.
Rather than fine-tuning and adjusting all parameters of the model, we freeze the parameters of the
BERT model (i.e., the embeddings are fixed) and add a classification head to the model. The
classification head takes embeddings from the BERT model as inputs and processes them with two
hidden layers: the first layer contains 16 neurons, and the second layer contains 8 neurons. Each layer
applies a Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation to introduce non-linearity. Following the processing
of the embeddings by the two layers, the resulting output vector is directed towards a softmax layer,
which computes the probability of each segment as boilerplate or not.
The choice of the above strategy (architecture) is motivated by a number of considerations. First, our
ma

--- PAGE 70 ---
relevant segments.1 We also employ a second, more flexible set of keywords, which match all
segments containing the word “culture(s)” or “cultural,” excluding those already identified to avoid
duplication. This second search results in a larger set of 46,795 segments. These segments contain
potentially relevant mentions of corporate culture, although their meaning could be ambiguous. The
word “culture(s),” and to a lesser extent the word “cultural,” may refer to biological or social context.
To address these ambiguities, we employ generative AI for word sense disambiguation (WSD). Table
IA2 Panel A shows the prompt. Our method matches the word “culture(s)” or “cultural” with one of
the three definitions from dictionary.com.2 The following examples illustrate our application of WSD:
1. “Organization structure, talent model and deep bench of UNH make for a strong
competitive advantage. The passion for excellence, humility, restlessness and desire to
win is a culture that keeps UNH at the top of its game, and we expect will make it hard
for fast-followers in the Large Cap MCO space and new Big Tech entrants such as
AMZN and AAPL to catch up.” -> Organizational
2. “Demand for specialty proteins, probiotics, and cultures supported pricing gains.
Continued strength in demand should contribute to a 1% and 4% YoY increase in
sales for 1Q14 and 2014, respectively.” -> Biological
3. “Cultural hurdles more relative than price. There’s no question that web
conferencing is significantly less expensive than face-to-face meetings that require
corporate travel (although it doesn't always replace a face-to-face meeting). To our
knowledge, no one is questioning the value proposition of web conferencing.” ->
Societal
We exclude segments in which the discussion of culture is classified as in a biological or societal
context, resulting in a final set of 41,038 segments.
It is possible that there are segments about corporate culture without mentioning explicit words or
phrases. Consider the following segment “One word we have heard from BBY's management team, a
word that has led to the highest service levels at retailers and often the most successful ones is
empowerment. From Wal-Mart in its heyday to Home Depot to Costco to Bed Bath and Beyond,
empowering employees has been a critical element to success among retailers.” This segment, while
not mentioning ‘culture,’ a human reader will conclude that it discusses a key aspect of corporate
culture: employee empowerment.
In step 2, we fine-tune a BERT model to identify culture-related segments that lack specific
keywords. The construction of our training set involves using segments, identified in step 1 as
containing relevant keywords, as positive examples (culture = 1). Conversely, we include randomly
selected segments without those keywords as negative examples (culture = 0). This training set is used
to fine-tune the model, which is then deployed across all segments (excluding those identified in step
1). Based on th

--- PAGE 71 ---
capabilities of ChatGPT for an additional layer of filtering. Table IA2 Panel B shows the prompt. The
prompt instructs ChatGPT to assess whether each input segment is relevant to corporate culture, based
on any of the following four definitions of corporate or organizational culture: principles and values
guiding employees (Guiso, Sapienza, and Zingales 2015), shared beliefs, assumptions, values, or
preferences driving group behaviors (Li and Van den Steen 2021), norms and values widely shared
and strongly held in the organization (O’Reilly and Chatman 1996), or an informal institution
characterized by behavioral patterns reinforced by events, people, and systems (Grennan and Li
2023).
For each input segment, ChatGPT is asked to provide a brief explanation (not exceeding 50 words)
justifying whether the segment discusses corporate or organizational culture topics as per the provided
definitions, and a classification of the segment as either “Culture” or “No Culture.” Only those
segments classified as “Culture” are retained. This step adds 51,434 segments. Our final data set
comprises 92,472 culture-related segments (41,038 segments from step 1 + 51,434 segments from
step 2).
Figures IA 1-4 provide some overview of analysts’ culture-related discussions in reports.
B. Matching Analyst Name in Reports to Analyst ID (AMASKCD) in I/B/E/S
We match lead analyst (i.e., the first author of a report) name to analyst ID (AMASKCD) in the
I/B/E/S database as follows.
First, to unmask abbreviated broker names and analyst names from I/B/E/S, we manually search each
broker’s full name and its analysts from Capital IQ. Our matching process involves three steps: 1) we
match abbreviated broker names in I/B/E/S (ESTIMID) to full broker names in Capital IQ by
resemblance; 2) we ascertain the match in Step 1 by matching analyst names (ANALYST) in I/B/E/S
with those in Capital IQ using the last name and first name initial; and 3) we supplement the above
two steps by checking whether Capital IQ analysts’ stock coverage is the same as that by matched
I/B/E/S analysts. Of the 1,075 broker names in I/B/E/S, we are able to unmask full names for 928
brokers (an 86.3% matching rate).
We then obtain analyst information, including biography and prefix (Mr. versus Ms.), from their
employment history in Capital IQ. In the end, we are able to unmask 13,164 out of the 14,909 analysts
in the I/B/E/S Detail Recommendations file (an 88.3% matching rate).
Second, to match each analyst in the report sample to analyst ID (AMASKCD) in the I/B/E/S data set,
we match each analyst’s name in Investext to our unmasked broker names and analyst names in the
I/B/E/S-Capital IQ merged sample as described above. Our matching proceeds as follows: 1) we
match each broker in Investext to broker name and ID (EMASKCD) in the I/B/E/S-Capital IQ merged
file; of the 1,006 unique brokers in Investext, we can link 443 brokers with EMASKCD – analysts
affiliated with these 443 brokers produce 91% of the report

--- PAGE 72 ---
When examining whether and how analysts’ views of culture impact price formation at the report
level, we need to control for each report’s quantitative and qualitative output (i.e., earnings forecast,
stock recommendation, and target price). As a result, we need to match analyst reports from Investext
in our sample with I/B/E/S forecast data following prior work (e.g., Huang, Zang, and Zheng 2014).
We employ a similar approach to link each report with its earnings forecast, stock recommendation,
and target price in I/B/E/S. Here is an illustration of the process using earnings forecasts as an
example.
Each report in our sample (from Section B) has a report date (DATE), a firm ID from I/B/E/S
(CUSIP), an analyst ID from I/B/E/S (AMASKCD), and a broker ID from I/B/E/S (EMASKCD).
Each earnings forecast in the I/B/E/S Detail file has an announcement date (ANNDATS), a review
date (REVDATS), a firm ID (CUSIP), an analyst ID (AMASKCD), and a broker ID (EMASKCD).
The announcement date is the day when an analyst revises her estimate and provides a forecast in a
report. The review date is the day when an analyst confirms to I/B/E/S that her outstanding forecast is
current. In I/B/E/S, a forecast is considered valid during the period from its announcement date until
its review date. Within the period, analysts may issue multiple reports reiterating a forecast, but these
reiterations have no separate entries in I/B/E/S.
We use a matching window, which is two days before a report’s announcement date to two days after
its review date, to match a report from Investext in our sample to an earnings forecast from I/B/E/S if
the report date (from Investext) is within the “matching window,” and there is a match of CUSIP-
AMASKCD-EMASKCD between a report in our sample and an I/B/E/S earnings forecast.
Of the 1,744,540 reports in our sample (from Section B), we are able to match stock recommendations
from I/B/E/S for 1,413,260 reports (an 81.0% matching rate), representing 36,100 firm-year
observations associated with 2,898 unique firms; we are able to match target prices for 1,402,233
reports (an 80.4% matching rate), representing 35,673 firm-year observations and 2,887 unique firms.
The samples used in Table 8 are smaller due to data availability for control variables.
Finally, we are able to match earnings estimates, stock recommendations, and target prices from
I/B/E/S for 1,089,760 reports (a 62.5% matching rate), representing 34,314 firm-year observations
associated with 2,858 firms. The sample used in Table 9 is smaller due to data availability for control
variables.
5
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 73 ---
Table IA1
Examples of the boilerplate segments
The table provides examples of the boilerplate segments in analyst reports, sorted by the predicted
probability of a segment being boilerplate using a fine-tuned BERT model (in descending order). We
retain segments with the predicted probability at 0.22 (the sample median) or lower.
Decile Probability Example
10 0.998 The investments or services contained or referred to in this report may not be suitable
for you and it is recommended that you consult an independent investment advisor if
you are in doubt about such investments or investment services.
Nothing in this report constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice or a
representation that any investment or strategy is suitable or appropriate to your
individual circumstances or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation to you.
CS does not offer advice on the tax consequences of investment and you are advised
to contact an independent tax adviser.
9 0.979 EEA -The securities and related financial instruments described herein may not be
eligible for sale in all jurisdictions or to certain categories of investors.
8 0.925 Distribution of ratings: See the distribution of ratings disclosure above.
Price Chart: See the price chart, with changes of ratings and price targets in prior
periods, above, or, if electronic format or if with respect to multiple companies which
are the subject of this report, on the DBSI website at http://gm.db.com.
7 0.871 Suspended -the company rating, target price and earnings estimates have been
temporarily suspended.
For disclosure purposes, Evercore Group's prior “Overweight,” “Equal-Weight” and
“Underweight” ratings were viewed as “Buy,” “Hold” and “Sell,” respectively.
Evercore ISI utilizes an alternate rating system for companies covered by analysts
who use a model portfolio-based approach to determine a company's investment
recommendation.
6 0.858 As a result, investors should be aware that the firm may have a conflict of interest that
could affect the objectivity of the report and investors should consider this report as
only a single factor in making their investment decision.
5 0.264 He also noted the Fed now has much more robust tools to guard against systemic risk
vs. overseeing individual institutions.
There were no questions about the history of the supervision process of large bank
holding companies within the Atlanta Fed (district six) or more generally the troubled
Georgia and Florida real estate markets.
4 0.054 These contracts usually have 1-5 year terms.
Since residential customers generally fall under local government jurisdictions, the
contracts are negotiated with the municipality -which in turn, will bill the residential
customer through taxes.
For larger commercial and industrial customers, the company will negotiate directly
with the end-user.
3 0.028 Integration of recent acquisitions.
Our downside risk for the shares is $10, which represents just over 10x our 2012 EPS
estimate of $0.9

--- PAGE 74 ---
Table IA2
Prompts to filter culture-related segments in analyst reports
This table presents detailed instructions given to generative AI models to filter corporate culture-related segments
in analyst reports. Panel A shows the prompt for word sense disambiguation relating to the words “culture(s)” and
“cultural.” Panel B shows the prompt to determine whether a segment with a high predicted probability of relating
to culture is really about corporate culture.
Panel A: Prompt to perform word sense disambiguation
Perform word sense disambiguation on the word 'culture(s)' or 'cultural' in the input segments.
These segments are from sell-side equity analyst research reports on companies. Classify each input
segment into one of the three categories: 'organizational,' 'societal,' or 'biological.' Definitions
for these categories are as follows:
* organizational culture: 'The values, typical practices, and goals of a business or other
organization, especially a large corporation. e.g., Their corporate "culture" frowns on avoiding
risk. We recognize a cost-cutting "culture". '
* societal culture: 'The behaviors and beliefs characteristic of a particular group of people, as a
social, ethnic, professional, or age group (usually used in combination). e.g., the youth "culture";
the drug "culture".
* biological culture: 'Biology. the cultivation of microorganisms, as bacteria, or of tissues, for
scientific study, medicinal use, etc. or the product or growth resulting from such cultivation.
e.g., cell "culture".'
For each input segment, provide:
1. The input ID (input_id).
2. The classification of the word 'culture(s)' or 'cultural' in input text as 'organizational,'
'societal,' or 'biological.'
Format your response in JSON. Make sure you process all of the inputs. Response format:
{"all results":
[
{
"input_id": "XXXX",
"classification": "organizational/societal/biological",
},
{
"input_id": "YYYY",
"classification": "organizational/societal/biological",
},
... (other inputs)
]
}
Panel B: Prompt to determine if a segment is really about corporate culture
Assess whether each of the following input segments is relevant to corporate or organizational
culture. The segments are from sell-side equity analyst research reports on companies. An input
segment is relevant to corporate or organizational culture if it discusses topics consistent with
any of the following definitions for corporate or organizational culture:
* "principles and values that should inform the behavior of all the firms’ employees."
* "a group’s shared beliefs, assumptions, values, or preferences that then drive that group’s
behaviors."
* "a set of norms and values that are widely shared and strongly held throughout the organization."
* "an informal institution typified by patterns of behavior and reinforced by events, people, and
systems."
For each input segment, provide:
1. The input ID (input_id).
2. Brief reasons (in 50 words or less) that explain if the segment contains discussions about
corp

--- PAGE 75 ---
"explanation": "This segment is relevant to corporate/organizational culture
because...",
"classification": "Culture",
},
{
"input_id": "YYYY",
"explanation": "This segment is not relevant to corporate/organizational culture because
it mainly discusses...",
"classification": "No Culture",
},
... (other segments)
]
}
8
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 76 ---
Table IA3
A list of cultural values in the literature
This table lists cultural values examined by prior work in the literature. The last column lists the nine cultural
values that analysts refer to when discussing culture in their reports extracted by generative AI in our paper.
Guiso, Sapienza,
Grennan Li et al. Graham et al.
and Zingales Our paper
(2019) (2021) (2022a, 2022b)
(2015)
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5)
Communication Adaptability Innovation Adaptability Adaptability
Community Collaboration Integrity Collaboration Customer-oriented
Hard work Customer-orientation Quality Community Innovation
Innovation Detail-orientation Respect Customer-orientation Integrity
Integrity Integrity Teamwork Detail-orientation Operations-oriented
Quality Results-orientation Integrity People-oriented
Respect Transparency Results-orientation Results-oriented
Safety Risk control
Teamwork Teamwork
9
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 77 ---
Table IA4
Representative examples of the extracted cultural values, their causes, and their effects
The table provides some representative examples of the extracted cultural values, and their causes and effects.
The causes are grouped into three categories: events, people, and systems suggested by Guiso, Sapienza, and
Zingales (2015), Graham et al. (2022a, 2022b), and Grennan and Li (2023).
Panel A: Different cultural values
Value Example
Adaptability adaptive culture, adaptive corporate culture, change-oriented culture, resilient culture,
proactive culture, continuous improvement culture, evolving culture, transformative culture,
transformational culture, agile culture
Customer-oriented customer-centric culture, sales-driven culture, sales-oriented culture, service-oriented
culture, customer-focused culture, customer-centric, client-focused culture, client-centric
culture, consumer-centric culture, customer-obsessed culture
Innovation innovative culture, entrepreneurial culture, growth-oriented culture, innovative corporate
culture, data-driven culture, technology-driven culture, innovation-driven culture,
knowledge-driven culture, creative and innovative culture, entrepreneurial and decentralized
culture
Integrity accountable culture, community-oriented culture, ethical corporate culture, socially
responsible culture, accountability culture, accountability-driven culture, values-driven
culture, integrity-based culture, transparent culture, integrity-driven culture
Miscellaneous challenging corporate culture, acquisitive culture, ambitious culture, stable corporate
culture, dedicated corporate culture, experienced corporate culture, focused culture, unique
culture, traditional corporate culture, long-term focused culture
Operations-oriented decentralized culture, cost-conscious culture, efficiency-driven culture, efficiency-oriented
culture, quality-focused culture, cost-cutting culture, detail-oriented culture, centralized
culture, process-oriented culture, operational culture
People-oriented employee-centric culture, inclusive culture, diverse corporate culture, family-oriented
culture, people-centric culture, talent-focused culture, people-focused culture, empowering
culture, internal-promotion culture, supportive culture
Results-oriented performance-driven culture, results-oriented culture, competitive culture, aggressive culture,
profit-driven culture, goal-oriented culture, high-performance culture, shareholder-focused
culture, winning culture, success-driven culture
Risk control disciplined culture, conservative culture, risk-averse culture, cautious culture, risk-aware
culture, safety-oriented culture, compliance-oriented culture, financially disciplined culture,
prudent culture, risk management culture
Teamwork collaborative culture, integration-oriented culture, team-oriented culture, cohesive corporate
culture, partnership-oriented culture, cooperative culture, team-based culture, silos culture,
alignment-oriented culture, collegial c

--- PAGE 78 ---
Event Mergers and acquisitions, strategic acquisitions, mergers and acquisitions, M&A
acquisitions activities, integration of acquired businesses
Event Regulatory issues regulatory actions, challenging regulatory environments, unknowns
within consumer regulatory agency, regulatory changes, SEC
investigation
Event Shareholder activism shareholder pressure, significant insider ownership, interaction with
activist investors, agreement with activist investor for board changes,
proxy fight with activist investor
Event Strategic organizational restructuring, strategic initiatives, reorganization,
transformation transition to solutions-based focus, strategic changes, business
transformation
People Customer relations focus on customer service, best-of-breed customer service, deep client
relationships, decades of high-quality service, direct relationships with
end-users
People Management team experienced management team, strong management team, CEO's
leadership, visionary leadership, long-tenured management team
System Business relationship local management with deep roots in each community, valuable
commercial client relationships, establishment of unique relationship
with independent agents, ability to attract and foster close and long-
lasting business relationships, strategic partnerships
System Business strategy training salesforce in value-over-volume strategy, focus on cost
management, differentiated merchandising strategy, management's
aggressive expansion initiative
System Compensation compensation structure, competitive compensation programs,
structure compensation structure emphasizing incentive pay, incentive
compensation structure, employee stock ownership
System Employee hiring and promotion from within, extensive training programs, long tenure of
retention employees, workforce reduction, resisting layoffs during recession
System Workplace safety desire to minimize personal risk for employees, industry's effort to
improve safety practices, independent safety oversight committee,
efforts to improve safety practices, fair hearing and remedy process for
workers' grievances
Miscellaneous structural attributes, resources, competitive environment, deep and
broad industry expertise, accounting practices
Panel C: Different effects of culture
Consequence Example
Business strong customer relationships, cross-selling opportunities, critical industry relationships,
relationship retaining valuable commercial client relationships, stronger franchisee alignment
Customer improved customer service, improved customer experience, customer satisfaction, customer
satisfaction loyalty, improved customer satisfaction
Diversity, improved diversity of leadership team, development of a diverse talent base, lack of
equity, and diversity in board composition, promotion of more women, toxic culture of sexual
inclusion harassment
Employee employee turnover, employee retention, low employee turnover, employee satisfaction,
satisfaction employee ownership
ESG practices cor

--- PAGE 79 ---
Market share revenue growth, market share gains, increased market share, expansion into new markets,
and growth establishing a strong presence in key markets around the world
Mergers and successful integration of acquisitions, successful acquisitions, challenges in integration,
acquisitions lower-than-expected synergies, M&A strategy
Misconduct management protecting their own interests over investors, unusual accounting moves,
massive legal liabilities, multiple scandals, legal troubles
Miscellaneous Competitive advantage, long-term success, improved operations, continued success, positive
geographic mix
Profitability margin expansion, improved profitability, cost savings, increased profitability, more stable
levels of profitability
Resilience business resilience, resilience in the next downturn, resilience during recession, successful
weathering of recent market volatility and macroeconomic uncertainty, persistent corporate
momentum
Risk focus on risk management, focus and importance placed on risk management, handling
management credit risk well, improved credit quality, minimized franchise risk
Shareholder consistently above-average returns, strong balance sheet, returns exceeding cost of capital
value for longer periods, enhanced shareholder value, alignment of interests with shareholders
12
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 80 ---
Table IA5
Examples of the extracted cause or effect relations
This table provides examples of the extracted cause or effect relations by generative AI. In each example, a snippet
of the culture-related segment is provided, and the extracted terms with corresponding canonicalized terms in
parentheses and the cause or effect relations are highlighted in boldface.
Example 1: Coca-Cola's CEO Neville Isdell presented for the company at the CAGNY conference in Arizona
this morning. While there was not much new news in the presentation, the company's tone has changed
meaningfully from Isdell's presentation at CAGNY two years ago (when KO was promising the market very
little) to today, when the company has greater confidence that its long-term algorithm is both working and
sustainable. We highlight what we think were a few of the key takeaways below:
• The company highlighted the improving performance in 2006 as KO has moved through its Manifesto For
Growth strategy and now enters a phase of likely sustainable growth with a focus on growing the core brands,
capturing emerging platforms by establishing a culture of innovation, and providing franchise leadership to
the bottlers (which was consistent with what we heard from CCE yesterday, with a greater focus on
increasing collaboration with the bottling system).
• KO is entering 2007 with some of the strongest growth momentum in the last several years, and the
company has demonstrated that they can continue to post solid growth despite underperformance in key
markets.NA should remain a challenge in 2007, but KO has clearly shown an ability to turn around problem
markets and seems very comfortable with its long-term growth model given strength in the balance of the
business. While it's not yet clear what stage in the turnaround we have entered for key markets such as Japan,
Germany, and India, KO expressed confidence in the recent improvements in these areas and we are
encouraged by the results…
Extracted relation(s):
• Manifesto for growth strategy (Business strategy) ® Innovative culture (Innovation).
• Innovative culture (Innovation) ® Strongest growth momentum in the last several years
(Market share and growth).
• Innovative culture (Innovation) ® Improving performance in 2006 (Profitability).
Ref: This report was written by John A. Faucher from JP Morgan for Coca-Cola Co. released on 2/22/2007.
Example 2: …WGL’s strategic objectives to improve its Gas Distribution business so that it provides stable
and growing revenue, foster a high-performance culture throughout the organization, and develop profitable
retail energy-related businesses should become achievable as the impact of its outsourcing agreement
becomes more visible.…
Extracted relation(s):
• Strategic objectives (Business strategy) ® High-performance culture (Results-oriented
culture).
Ref: This report was written by Joanne M. Fairechio from Janney Montgomery Scott LLC for WGL Holdings
Inc. released on 11/27/2007.
Example 3: Our $46 Dec-12 Pri

--- PAGE 81 ---
• Selling culture with a focus on brands, fashion, and price (Customer-oriented) ® Double digit
earnings growth through 2015 (Market share and growth).
Ref: This report was written by Matthew R. Boss from JP Morgan for Macy’s Inc. released on 3/12/2012.
Example 4: It was championed by Starbucks' chairman Howard Schultz since early in Starbucks' existence.
Health care costs have increased dramatically over the past several years, and continue to pressure the
company's operating margins. However, we do not expect Starbucks to move away from the health benefit
program, as it is an important part of its culture and its ability to attract good employees...
Extracted relation(s):
• Howard Schultz (Management team) ® Employee-centric culture (People-oriented).
• Employee-centric culture (People-oriented) ® Ability to attract good employees (Employee
satisfaction).
Ref: This report was written by Ashley R. Woodruff from Bear, Stearns & Co., Inc. for Starbucks Corporation
released on 5/18/2005.
Example 5: … ARG has a 20% compound annual return to shareowners in its 20 years as a public company,
on strong growth, led by a scrappy entrepreneurial culture bred by its founder and CEO, who maintains a
10% stake in the company…
Extracted relation(s):
• Founder's leadership (Management team) ® Entrepreneurial culture (Innovation).
• Entrepreneurial culture (Innovation) ® 20% compound annual return to shareowners
(Shareholder value).
Ref: This report was written by Edward Hoonshik Yang from CIBC Capital Markets Corp. for Airgas Inc
released on 11/28/2007.
Example 6: Schein's U.S. Medical division appears poised for better-than-market revenue and earnings
growth. Recent management changes have taken hold and have created a stronger, more team-oriented
culture in the division. Management's improvements are bearing out in the favorable top-line performance of
this business, which ranks among the strongest revenue growth rates in all of medical/surgical distribution.
We believe that Schein's better-than-market revenue growth in U.S. Medical reflects two elements of this
business: Schein's direct-mail orientation creates cost-advantages and its catalog-based revenue (which
accounts for about one-half of U.S. Medical total revenue) is growing at 2 times the rate of salesperson-based
revenue.
Extracted relation(s):
• Team-oriented culture (Teamwork) ® Better-than-market revenue growth (Market share and
growth).
• Recent management changes (Management change) ®Team-oriented culture (Teamwork).
Ref: This report was written by David G. O’Neill from William Blair & Company for Henry Schein In.
released on 6/20/2000.
Example 7: … XPO has also instilled a strong performance-based culture (salary plus incentive compensation
tied to gross margin dollars and gross margin dollars per load), which we believe has contributed to the recent
increase in productivity and should help drive revenue growth as the salesforce continues to mature (average
tenure is a little over one year).We

--- PAGE 82 ---
• Performance-based culture (Results-oriented) ® Potential revenue growth (Market share and
growth).
Ref: This report was written by Nathan Brochmann from William Blair & Company for XPO Inc. released on
6/19/2015.
Example 8: … Demand Remains Solid; Raising FVE to $88 17 Feb 2017. Arista reported strong results in its
fourth quarter, with revenue increasing above our expectations. We are impressed by another year of stellar
revenue growth, as the company's strategic focus on large customers' needs and its culture of product
innovation are paying off. …
Extracted relation(s):
• Innovative culture (Innovation) ® Stellar revenue growth (Market share and growth).
• Strategic focus on large customers’ needs (Customer relations) ® Innovative culture
(Innovation).
Ref: This report was written by Ilya Kundozerov from Morningstar Inc. for Arista Networks Inc. released on
5/8/2017.
Example 9: Citigroup's management team has created a culture that is bottom line focused, where revenue
and expenses are given equal weight in measuring success. Accordingly, Citigroup has a culture that is
almost paranoid about keeping costs low and finding new methods to improve efficiency. In the multiple
conversations we had with management, we found that there is the unspoken expectation that margins will
improve from one year to the next. If per unit costs are not falling, management indicated that something is
wrong. Scale also plays an important role in Citigroup's higher margins. Because Citigroup is larger than its
peers, it has scale in every business in which it participates, so costs are expected to be low and margins high.
Extracted relation(s):
• Efficiency-driven culture (Operations-oriented) ® High margins (Profitability).
• Management's focus on revenue and expenses (Business strategy)® Efficiency-driven culture
(Operations-oriented).
Ref: This report was written by Ken Worthington from CIBC Capital Market Corp. for Citigroup Inc.
released on 10/23/2002.
Example 10: … BBY has had 32 customer centricity stores in place for the past 10 months, which strive to
drive incremental sales growth by more closely matching the stores to the needs of the customers in the
relevant communities. The 32 test stores focus on profitable customer segments, tailor the product offering to
the target market, and build an operating model to meet the needs of the customer base. In addition, these
stores create an owner-operator culture at the store level as decisions are made closer to the customer. The 32
test stores led BBY's comparable store sales in 4Q04 and also earned higher gross margins…
Extracted relation(s):
• Customer-centric culture (Customer-oriented) ® Earning higher gross margins
(Profitability).
• Customer-centric culture (Customer-oriented) ® Leading comparable store sales (Market
share and growth).
Ref: This report was written by Dana L. Telsey from Bear, Stearns & Co., Inc. for Best Buy Co Inc. released
on 4/1/2004.
15
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/

--- PAGE 83 ---
Table IA6
Correlation matrices for the firm-year and firm-analyst-year samples
This table presents the correlation matrices for samples used in different regression analyses. Panel A presents the correlations for variables at the firm-year level. Panel B
presents the correlations for variables at the firm-analyst-year level. Definitions of the variables are provided in the Appendix. Superscripts a, b, and c indicate significance at
the 1, 5, and 10 percent levels, respectively.
Panel A: The correlation matrix for the firm-year sample
Variable 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1. Culture discussion 1.000
2. Firm size 0.280a 1.000
3. Ln(Firm age + 1) 0.045a 0.323a 1.000
4. Sales growth 0.020 -0.068a -0.188a 1.000
5. ROA 0.111a 0.070a 0.052a 0.154a 1.000
6. Leverage 0.011b 0.248a 0.101a -0.061a -0.130a 1.000
7. Tangibility -0.046a 0.156a 0.193a -0.100a -0.048 0.256a 1.000
8. ROA volatility -0.126a -0.263a -0.129a 0.031c -0.391a 0.003c 0.008a 1.000
9. Large institutional ownership -0.125a -0.242a -0.059a -0.009a -0.044 0.029b -0.102a -0.013b 1.000
10. Board independence -0.217a -0.389a -0.055a 0.022a -0.139a -0.013a -0.030a 0.041 0.238a 1.000
11. CEO duality 0.046a 0.116a 0.079a -0.013 0.045a -0.019c 0.041a -0.106a -0.068a -0.078a 1.000
12. Ln(Number of key people changes + 1) 0.168a 0.318a 0.126a -0.070a -0.081a 0.033a -0.003a -0.012 -0.100b -0.070a -0.052a 1.000
13. Ln(Number of M&As + 1) 0.136a 0.374a 0.075a 0.023a 0.002 0.106a -0.035a -0.053a -0.149a -0.185a 0.031a 0.187a 1.000
14. Corporate culture 0.119a -0.145a -0.211a 0.087a -0.018a -0.129a -0.227a 0.085a 0.042a -0.033a -0.075a 0.103a 0.014 1.000
15. Employee culture rating 0.050a 0.054a 0.064a -0.011 0.010 0.113a 0.003 -0.058a 0.201a 0.132a -0.088a -0.008 -0.022b 0.157a 1.000
16. Ln(Number of employee reviews + 1) 0.298a 0.467a 0.159a -0.072a 0.107a 0.121a -0.054a -0.153a 0.015c -0.200a 0.000 0.256a 0.196a 0.272a 0.458a
16
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 84 ---
Panel B: The correlation matrix for the firm-analyst-year sample
Variable 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
1. Culture discussion 1.000
2. Star analyst 0.016a 1.000
3. Female 0.025a -0.032a 1.000
4. Forecast horizon -0.023a 0.049a -0.003 1.000
5. General experience 0.035a 0.108a -0.030a -0.030a 1.000
6. Firm experience 0.048a 0.113a -0.032a 0.013a 0.590a 1.000
7. Number of industries followed 0.021a 0.032a -0.022a -0.113a 0.154a 0.068a 1.000
8. Number of firms followed -0.003 0.116a -0.060a 0.018a 0.307a 0.180a 0.371a 1.000
9. Forecast frequency -0.003 0.098a 0.011a -0.024a 0.039a 0.141a -0.055a 0.089a 1.000
10. Broker size 0.049a 0.226a 0.035a 0.063a -0.033a 0.012a -0.085a 0.083a 0.104a
17
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 85 ---
Figure IA1
Temporal trends in culture-related segments in analyst reports
The sample consists of 92,472 culture-related segments in analyst reports over the period 2000–2020.
Panel A: Temporal trends in culture-related reports and segments
# of reports
# of segments
18
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 86 ---
Panel B: Temporal trends in culture-related segments by cultural value
19
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 87 ---
Figure IA2
Industry distributions of culture-related segments in analyst reports
The sample consists of 92,472 culture-related segments in analyst reports over the period 2000–2020. Our
industry classification is based on Fama-French 12 industries.
Panel A: Industry distribution of culture-related segments in analyst reports
Panel B: Industry distribution of culture-related segments in analyst reports by cultural value
20
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

--- PAGE 88 ---
Figure IA3
Tone distribution of culture-related segments in analyst reports by cultural value
The sample consists of 92,472 culture-related segments in analyst reports over the period 2000–2020.
21
Electronic copy available at: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4558295

